{\rtf1 \ansi \deff0

@{\footnote ------- definice fontù --------- }

{\fonttbl 
{\f0 \fswiss MS San Serif;}
}

@{\footnote ------- definice barev --------- }

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}

@{\footnote Použití barev:
	0 - èerná
	1 - tmavì èervená
	2 - tmavì zelená
	3 - hnìdá
	4 - tmavì modrá
	5 - tmavì fialová
	6 - tmavì modrozelená
	7 - šedá
	8 - tmavì šedá
	9 - èervená
	10 - zelená
	11 - žlutá
	12 - modrá
	13 - fialová
	14 - modrozelená
	15 - bílá
}

#{\footnote 20391}
#{\footnote 20392}
#{\footnote 20393}
#{\footnote 20394}
#{\footnote 20691}
#{\footnote 20696}
#{\footnote 20697}
#{\footnote 20766}
${\footnote Pictures}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Pictures;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Pictures\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
\par
The outputting of the picture drawing takes place into the {\uldb graphic layer}{\v Layers}. To ensure the visibility it is therefore necessary to enable the sheet items to be transparent by filling them out with a transparent color.\par
\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20387.bmp\}\tab draw picture}{\v 20387}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20395.bmp\}\tab retain cutout from sheet as picture}{\v 20395}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20133.bmp\}\tab transparency}{\v 20133}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20644.bmp\}\tab picture identity}{\v 20644}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20687.bmp\}\tab picture width}{\v 20687}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20688.bmp\}\tab picture height}{\v 20688}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20689.bmp\}\tab horizontal flip of picture}{\v 20689}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20690.bmp\}\tab vertical flip of picture}{\v 20690}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20692.bmp\}\tab change picture size}{\v 20692}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20722.bmp\}\tab change brightness of picture}{\v 20722}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20725.bmp\}\tab rotate picture}{\v 20725}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20765.bmp\}\tab picture masking}{\v 20765}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20949.bmp\}\tab exchange colors}{\v 20949}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20952.bmp\}\tab replace color}{\v 20952}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20730.bmp\}\tab convert sheet to picture}{\v 20730}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20731.bmp\}\tab convert item to picture}{\v 20731}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20955.bmp\}\tab print picture}{\v 20955}\par
\par
\i Note: \i0 If size of the window is set to half size of the graphic sheet then the multicolor (TRUE COLOR) mode of the program is activated. The graphic sheet is reduced to half of its size with conversion to the TRUE COLOR before it is displayed on the screen. It enables display photographies in original color quality (if they are loaded into program in double size).\par
\page

#{\footnote 20387}
#{\footnote 20388}
#{\footnote 20389}
#{\footnote 20390}
${\footnote Draw Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Draw Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20387.bmp\} Draw Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20387.bmp\} \b \i draw picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20388.bmp\} \b \i picture to be drawn \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20389.bmp\} \b \i horizontal X coordinate of picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20390.bmp\} \b \i vertical Y coordinate of picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20391.bmp\} \b \i horizontal X coordinate of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20392.bmp\} \b \i vertical Y coordinate of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20393.bmp\} \b \i width of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20394.bmp\} \b \i height of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i draw picture \i0 \b0 command makes it possible to draw a picture or a picture cutout into the {\uldb graphic layer}{\v Layers}. The picture coordinates define the destination position where the picture or the cutout will be drawn. In quality of the cutout coordinates those cutout coordinates are regarded that are related to the picture's left lower corner. Without specifying the cutout parameters the whole picture is drawn as a default setting.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20395}
${\footnote Retain Cutout from Sheet as Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Retain Cutout from Sheet as Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20395.bmp\} Retain Cutout from Sheet as Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20395.bmp\} \b \i retain cutout from sheet as picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20391.bmp\} \b \i horizontal X coordinate of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20392.bmp\} \b \i vertical Y coordinate of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20393.bmp\} \b \i width of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20394.bmp\} \b \i height of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i retain cutout from sheet as picture \i0 \b0 function enables to create a picture by means of graphic commands. It downloads the entered part from the {\uldb graphic layer}{\v Layers} and returns it as a picture. Without the cutout data being entered, the whole sheet area is used. On crossing the sheet borders the picture size is reduced to the valid section. If an item is to be created instead of a picture, then the {\uldb retain cutout from sheet as item}{\v 20396} function may be used for this purpose.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20133}
${\footnote Transparency}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Transparency;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20133.bmp\} Transparency\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i transparency \i0 \b0 element ensures making the program window transparent by drawing the screen contents in the portion below the window. The operation of taking the screen contents requires concealing the program window for a period of about 1 second (when the window is displayed). If the program window is not displayed in the 1:1 scale factor (i.e. if it is diminished or enlarged), then a screen portion will be taken corresponding to a window scaled 1:1 and having the same center as the program window has now.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20644}
${\footnote Picture Identity}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Picture Identity;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20644.bmp\} Picture Identity\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i picture identity \i0 \b0 element serves to compare pictures. When doing this, it is not the picture areas that are evaluated, but only the fact, that data objects of the picture type are identical. One or more pictures can be entered. The comparing takes place from the top downwards. The element will return a logic validity flag in case all pictures are identical. A special case is comparing one picture. The picture is compared with an empty picture, for instance in case of investigating, whether a valid picture has been readed from a file.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20687}
${\footnote Picture Width}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Picture Width;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20687.bmp\} Picture Width\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i picture width \i0 \b0 function returns the width of a picture entered as a function parameter.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20688}
${\footnote Picture Height}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Picture Height;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20688.bmp\} Picture Height\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i picture height \i0 \b0 function returns the height of a picture entered as a function parameter.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20689}
${\footnote Horizontal Flip of Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Horizontal Flip of Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20689.bmp\} Horizontal Flip of Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i horizontal flip of picture \i0 \b0 function flips horizontally the picture entered on the function input, and returns it on its output.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20690}
${\footnote Vertical Flip of Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Vertical Flip of Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20690.bmp\} Vertical Flip of Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i vertical flip of picture \i0 \b0 function flips vertically the picture entered on the function input, and returns it on its output.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20692}
#{\footnote 20693}
#{\footnote 20694}
#{\footnote 20695}
${\footnote Change Picture Size}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Change Picture Size;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20692.bmp\} Change Picture Size\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20692.bmp\} \b \i change picture size \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20693.bmp\} \b \i picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20694.bmp\} \b \i width \i0 \b0 (default = proportional to height) \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20695.bmp\} \b \i height \i0 \b0 (default = proportional to width) \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20696.bmp\} \b \i refine edges \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20697.bmp\} \b \i dithering (photograph) \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i change picture size \i0 \b0 function makes it possible to convert the picture dimensions. The picture to be converted is entered as a \b \i picture \i0 \b0 parameter, the converted picture is transferred to the function output.\par
\par
The \b \i width \i0 \b0 and \b \i height \i0 \b0 parameters are numeric parameters specifying the picture's new size. If the numeric value is not entered, then the corresponding dimension will be converted proportionally to the other dimension entered. By entering a negative value the picture will be flipped in the corresponding direction.\par
\par
The \b \i refine edges \i0 \b0 parameter is a logic switch. It provides for conversion with interpolation of pixels. It is used for high quality conversion; the resulting picture will retain its appearance even after the conversion. This method, though rather slow, is an accurate one. The default setting of this switch is "off".\par
\par
The \b \i dithering \i0 \b0 parameter takes care for a proper semi-shades display by means of {\uldb dithering}{\v Dithering}. The switch is disabled, if the "refine edge" switch is not on. The default setting of this switch is "on". It is used above all in converting photographs; it is advisable to switch the dithering off when converting drawings.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20722}
#{\footnote 20723}
#{\footnote 20724}
${\footnote Change Brightness of Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Change Brightness of Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20722.bmp\} Change Brightness of Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20722.bmp\} \b \i change brightness of picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20723.bmp\} \b \i picture to change brightness \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20724.bmp\} \b \i picture brightness \i0 \b0 (1 = usual) \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20697.bmp\} \b \i dithering (photograph) \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i change brightness of picture \i0 \b0 function enables to change the picture brightness continuously. By the first parameter,  the \b \i picture to change brightness\i0 \b0 , the picture to be converted is presented to the function. The second parameter, the \b \i picture brightness\i0 \b0 , is a numeric parameter determining the relative change of the picture brightness. The value of 1 leaves the picture without any change. By increasing the number above the value of 1 the picture will get brighter, by diminishing it to a value ranging between 0 and 1 it will get darker.\par
\par
The last parameter, the \b \i dithering \i0 \b0 will provide for a proper semi-shades reproduction by means of the {\uldb dithering}{\v Dithering}. The dithering operation is time consuming, therefore the default setting of this parameter is "off". It is suitable to switch it on only when a high quality picture conversion is required.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20725}
#{\footnote 20726}
#{\footnote 20727}
${\footnote Rotate Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Rotate Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20725.bmp\} Rotate Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20725.bmp\} \b \i rotate picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20726.bmp\} \b \i picture to be rotated \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20727.bmp\} \b \i angle of rotation \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20696.bmp\} \b \i refine edges \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20697.bmp\} \b \i dithering (photograph) \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i rotate picture \i0 \b0 function enables to rotate a picture around its center. By the first parameter, the \b \i picture to be rotated \i0 \b0 the picture to be converted is presented to the function. The second parameter, the \b \i angle of rotation \i0 \b0 specifies the angle by which the picture should be rotated. The angle is entered in radian. The default parameter is 0, i.e. the picture will not be rotated.\par
\par
The \b \i refine edges \i0 \b0 parameter is a logic switch. It provides for conversion with interpolation of pixels. It is utilized for high quality conversion; the resulting picture will retain it appearance even after being converted. This method, though rather slow, is an accurate one. The default setting of this switch is "off".\par
\par
The \b \i dithering \i0 \b0 parameter takes care for a proper semi-shades display by means of {\uldb dithering}{\v Dithering}. The switch is disabled, if the "refine edge" switch is not on. The default setting of this switch is "on". It is used above all in converting photographs; it is advisable to switch the dithering off when converting drawings.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20765}
#{\footnote 20767}
${\footnote Picture Masking}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Picture Masking;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20765.bmp\} Picture Masking\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20765.bmp\} \b \i picture masking \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20766.bmp\} \b \i picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20767.bmp\} \b \i mask \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i picture masking \i0 \b0 function enables to make specified picture portions transparent. When executing the masking operation picture pixels are set to a transparent color corresponding to the pixels in a transparent color mask. For mask pixels having another color the picture pixels will remain unchanged. The resulting new picture will be returned on the function output. Thus the function enables e.g. to draw a picture portion having a non-rectangular shape.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20949}
#{\footnote 20950}
#{\footnote 20951}
${\footnote Exchange Colors}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Exchange Colors;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20949.bmp\} Exchange Colors\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20949.bmp\} \b \i exchange colors \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20766.bmp\} \b \i picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20950.bmp\} \b \i first color \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20951.bmp\} \b \i second color \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i exchange colors \i0 \b0 function exchanges two colors in a picture. The resulting new picture will be returned on the function output. Transparency color (number \b $FF000000\b0 ) or shadow color (number \b $70000000\b0 ) can be used as a color, too.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20952}
#{\footnote 20953}
#{\footnote 20954}
${\footnote Replace Color}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Replace Color;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20952.bmp\} Replace Color\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20952.bmp\} \b \i replace color \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20766.bmp\} \b \i picture \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20953.bmp\} \b \i old color \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20954.bmp\} \b \i new color \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i replace color \i0 \b0 function replaces color of the picture with another color. The resulting new picture will be returned on the function output. Transparency color (number \b $FF000000\b0 ) or shadow color (number \b $70000000\b0 ) can be used as a color, too.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20730}
${\footnote Convert Sheet to Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Convert Sheet to Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20730.bmp\} Convert Sheet to Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i convert sheet to picture \i0 \b0 element creates a picture out of a sheet specified as a parameter. This function is intended to display the sheet preview when running plays, e.g. in the radar function.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20731}
${\footnote Convert Item to Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Convert Item to Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20731.bmp\} Convert Item to Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i convert item to picture \i0 \b0 element creates a picture out of an item specified as a parameter. The dimensions of the picture thus created are 1 x 1 step (32 x 32 graphic pixels).\par
\page

#{\footnote 20955}
${\footnote Print Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Print Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20955.bmp\} Print Picture\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Pictures}{\v 20691}\par
\par
The \b \i print picture \i0 \b0 element prints out picture assigned as a parameter on the printer.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20301}
${\footnote Color Constant}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Color Constant;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20301.bmp\} Color Constant\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
\par
The color for graphic functions is expressed by the integer term \i color = red + green*256 + blue*256*256 + (255-alpha)*256*256*256\i0 , where the individual color components may assume values ranging between 0 and 255.\par
\par
The alpha component determines the color transparency. Its significance is above all in using with the {\uldb 3D graphics}{\v 20788}. Its value may range between 0=transparent color and 255=opaque color. With usual colors of the 2D graphics the alpha component does not need to be used (By setting its value equal 255 the last statement term will not assert itself). By specifying the $FF000000 numeric code instead of the color the transparent color can be selected. By entering the $70000000 code the shadow color will be used.\par
\par
The color constant returns a numeric value for the color selected. The color value is set by selecting it from among possible color values by double clicking or pressing Enter on the color constant.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc Color_en.bmp\}\par
\page

#{\footnote 20421}
#{\footnote 20422}
#{\footnote 20423}
${\footnote Get Color of Pixel}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Get Color of Pixel;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20421.bmp\} Get Color of Pixel\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20421.bmp\} \b \i get color of pixel \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20422.bmp\} \b \i horizontal X coordinate for getting color of pixel \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20423.bmp\} \b \i vertical Y coordinate for getting color of pixel \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i get color of pixel \i0 \b0 function returns the {\uldb color's}{\v 20301} numeric value from the {\uldb graphic layer}{\v Layers} of a pixel having specified coordinates.\par
\par
The function returns the $FF000000 code for the transparent color and the $70000000 code for the shadow color.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20345}
#{\footnote 20346}
${\footnote Change Color Brightness}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Change Color Brightness;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20345.bmp\} Change Color Brightness\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20345.bmp\} \b \i change color brightness \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20303.bmp\} \b \i pen color \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20346.bmp\} \b \i color brightness \i0 \b0 (0 to 1) \par
\par
The \b \i change color brightness \i0 \b0 function enables to change the {\uldb color}{\v 20301} brightness by means of a program. The new color will be returned as an output numeric value. The color brightness is changed from the black color (brightness 0) up to the brightest color of a given color nuance (brightness 1).\par
\page

#{\footnote 20417}
#{\footnote 20418}
#{\footnote 20419}
#{\footnote 20420}
#{\footnote 20928}
${\footnote Compound Color Components to Color}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Compound Color Components to Color;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20417.bmp\} Compound Color Components to Color\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20417.bmp\} \b \i compound color components to color \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20418.bmp\} \b \i red component \i0 \b0 (0 to 1), default 0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20419.bmp\} \b \i green component \i0 \b0 (0 to 1), default 0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20420.bmp\} \b \i blue component \i0 \b0 (0 to 1), default 0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20928.bmp\} \b \i alpha component \i0 \b0 (0 to 1), default 1 (it is not necessary to specify it for normal colors)\par
\par
The \b \i compound color components to color \i0 \b0 function compounds the individual color components (their values being between 0 and 1) to a resulting {\uldb color}{\v 20301}, which will be returned on the output as a numeric value. It is not necessary to enter the alpha component for normal colors; in this case the default value 1 will be used. When setting the alpha component equal 0 the transparent color will be used.\par
\par
The alpha component determines the color transparency. Its significance is above all in using with the {\uldb 3D graphics}{\v 20788}. Its value may range between 0=transparent color and 1=opaque color (default value of the parameter). With graphical operations by setting the alpha component equal 0 (it is not necessary to set other components) the transparent color can be selected (the $FF000000 number after conversion). By setting it equal 0.56 the shadow color will be used (the $70000000 number after conversion).\par
\page

#{\footnote 20396}
${\footnote Retain Cutout from Sheet as Item}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Retain Cutout from Sheet as Item;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20396.bmp\} Retain Cutout from Sheet as Item\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20396.bmp\} \b \i retain cutout from sheet as item \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20391.bmp\} \b \i horizontal X coordinate of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\tab \{bmc IDF20392.bmp\} \b \i vertical Y coordinate of cutout \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i retain cutout from sheet as item \i0 \b0 function enables to create an item picture by means of graphic commands. It will download the specified portion from the {\uldb graphic layer}{\v Layers} and return it as an item. If a picture should be created instead of an item, then the function {\uldb retain cutout from sheet as picture}{\v 20395} can be utilized for this purpose.\par
\page

}
