{\rtf1 \ansi \deff0

@{\footnote ------- definice fontù --------- }

{\fonttbl 
{\f0 \fswiss MS San Serif;}
}

@{\footnote ------- definice barev --------- }

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}

#{\footnote Editing a Number}
${\footnote Editing a Number}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Number;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Number\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
When editing a {\uldb numerical variable}{\v 20043} an edit line is displayed in the middle of the edit panel. This edit line serves for entering or changing the value of a number.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditN_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
The text of a number is entered without spaces. The number can be preceded by a sign, \b + \b0 or \b -\b0 . The number mantissa can include up to \b 15 \b0 numerals and a decimal point or a comma. The mantissa can be followed by an exponent separated by \b E \b0 or \b e\b0 . The exponent is an integer ranging between \b -308 \b0 and \b +308\b0 .\par
\par
A number can be entered in the hexadecimal form by inserting the \b $ \b0 (dollar) character in front of the number. Thus e.g. the entry \b $1F \b0 corresponds the number \b 31\b0 . Similarly, by inserting the \b % \b0 (the percent character) a number can be entered in the binary form. Thus e.g. the entry \b %1001 \b0 corresponds the number \b 9\b0 .\par
\tx3000 \par
\cf12 \b Editing operations\b0 \cf0 \par
\b \i marking a text \i0 \b0 \tab - Shift the mouse pointer, concurrently holding the left mouse button pressed.\par
\tab - Shift the cursor by the arrow keys, concurrently holding the \b \i Shift \i0 \b0 key.\par
\tab - Double click with the mouse on the text; the whole text will be marked.\par
\tab - Click \b \i Ctrl+A\i0 \b0 ; the whole text will be marked.\par
\b \i unmarking a text \i0 \b0 \tab - Click with the mouse into the text.\par
\tab - Shift the cursor by the arrow keys.\par
\b \i deleting a text \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Delete \i0 \b0 or \b \i Back Space\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i putting a marked text to the clipboard \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+C \i0 \b0 (copy) or \b \i Ctrl+X \i0 \b0 (cut).\par
\b \i returning a text from the clipboard \i0 \b0 \tab - Set the cursor on the desired position and press \b \i Ctrl+V\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i returning the original number \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+Z\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i undoing the number return \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+Y\i0 \b0 .\par
\page

#{\footnote Editing a Flag}
${\footnote Editing a Flag}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Flag;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Flag\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
When editing a {\uldb logic flag}{\v 20063} a switching element is displayed in the middle of the editing area serving for the setup of the flag value. A logic flag can assume only two conditions: \b ON \b0 (valid, true, YES) and \b OFF \b0 (invalid, false, NO).\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditL1en.bmp\}              \{bmc EditL0en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
\tx3000 \par
\cf12 \b Editing operations\b0 \cf0 \par
\b \i changing the switch state \i0 \b0 \tab - Click with the left mouse button on the switching element (or its text).\par
\tab - Press the \b \i Enter \i0 \b0 or the \b \i spacebar \i0 \b0 key.\par
\b \i returning the switch state \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+Z\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i undoing the switch return \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+Y\i0 \b0 .\par
\page

#{\footnote Editing a Text}
${\footnote Editing a Text}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Text;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Text\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
When editing a {\uldb text variable}{\v 20051} a multiple line editing area is displayed intended to enter or to change a text.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditT_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
\tx3000 \par
\cf12 \b Editing operations\b0 \cf0 \par
\b \i marking a text \i0 \b0 \tab - Drag with the mouse, at the same time holding the mouse left button pressed.\par
\tab - Shift the cursor by the arrow key, at the same time holding the \b \i Shift \i0 \b0 key.\par
\tab - Double click the text with the mouse, thus marking the whole word.\par
\tab - Click \b \i Ctrl+A\i0 \b0 , thus marking the whole text.\par
\b \i unmarking a text \i0 \b0 \tab - Click with the mouse into the text.\par
\tab - Shift the cursor with the arrow keys.\par
\b \i passing to a new line \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i creating the tabulator character \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+I \i0 \b0 (normally not to be used; in most cases it is not supported).\par
\b \i deleting a text \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Delete \i0 \b0 or \b \i Backspace \i0 \b0 key.\par
\b \i putting a marked text to the clipboard \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+C \i0 \b0 (copy) or \b \i Ctrl+X \i0 \b0 (cut).\par
\b \i returning a text from the clipboard \i0 \b0 \tab - Set the cursor on the desired position and press \b \i Ctrl+V\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i returning the original number \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+Z\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i undoing the number return \i0 \b0 \tab - Press \b \i Ctrl+Y\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
On editing the text the current cursor position (line and position on the line) is displayed in the {\uldb information field}{\v Program Editor} of the main window. The line and the position are numbered from 1, unlike the {\uldb text functions}{\v 20276}, which use numbering the line and the position from the zero value.\par
\par
The contents of the text variable depends on the preset language of the Peter application. The program may include texts for several languages. When starting the program in a particular language texts for this language are displayed. If the text of a variable is empty, the default language or some other language text is used.\par
\page

#{\footnote Editing an Item and a Picture}
${\footnote Editing an Item and a Picture}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing an Item and a Picture;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing an Item and a Picture\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
On editing {\uldb items}{\v 20044} or {\uldb pictures}{\v 20246} a field for color selection is displayed in the lower part of the editing area in addition the graphic editing field. During painting, the left and the right mouse button can be assigned two mutually independent colors. In addition to normal colors a transparent color can be used, which is supposed to secure the visibility of the sprites and the {\uldb graphic layer}{\v Layers}. Applied to pictures, it enables to combine the overlapping with a partial visibility of the original contents. The shadow color causes a shadow effect: repainting a picture containing a shadow makes the original color darker in those portions where there is the shadow color in the picture.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditI_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \tx2200 \par
\cf12 \b Toolbar \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc PicDim.bmp\} \b \i   Dimensions \i0 \b0 \tab Sets picture general {\uldb dimensions}{\v Picture Dimensions} (only when editing a picture).\par
\{bmc Rastr.bmp\} \b \i   Raster \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the orientation raster display.\par
\{bmc PicKonv.bmp\} \b \i   Edit \i0 \b0 \tab {\uldb Edits the picture}{\v Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part} or its part (resize, rotation, color exchange).\par
\{bmc Otisk.bmp\} \b \i   Block Stamp \i0 \b0 \tab Stamps the block to the picture.\par
\pard \tx3000 \par
\cf12 \b Edit Modes \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc EditPen.bmp\} \b \i   Pen \i0 \b0 \tab Draws with the pen.\par
\{bmc EditLine.bmp\} \b \i   Line \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a line.\par
\{bmc EditBox.bmp\} \b \i   Box \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a box.\par
\{bmc EditBox2.bmp\} \b \i   Filled Box \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled box.\par
\{bmc EditCirc.bmp\} \b \i   Circle \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a circle.\par
\{bmc EditKruh.bmp\} \b \i   Filled Circle \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled circle.\par
\{bmc EditElip.bmp\} \b \i   Ellipse \i0 \b0 \tab Draws an ellipse.\par
\{bmc EditOval.bmp\} \b \i   Filled Ellipse \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled ellipse.\par
\{bmc EditKoul.bmp\} \b \i   Sphere \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a sphere.\par
\{bmc EditBlok.bmp\} \b \i   Selection \i0 \b0 \tab Marks the determined part as selected (left mouse button = move, right mouse button = copy).\par
\{bmc EditSpry.bmp\} \b \i   Spray \i0 \b0 \tab Draws with the spray (profuseness is determined by selected line thickness).\par
\{bmc EditPipe.bmp\} \b \i   Pipette \i0 \b0 \tab Sets the color beneath the cursor as selected.\par
\{bmc EditFill.bmp\} \b \i   Filler \i0 \b0 \tab Fills the surface by a color.\par
\{bmc EditTxt.bmp\} \b \i   Text \i0 \b0 \tab Writes the text.\par
\par
\cf12 \b Line Thickness \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc EditLn01.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 1 Pixel \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 1 pixel.\par
\{bmc EditLn02.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 2 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 2 pixels.\par
\{bmc EditLn05.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 5 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 5 pixels.\par
\{bmc EditLn09.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 9 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 9 pixels.\par
\{bmc EditLn21.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 21 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 21 pixels.\par
\par
When marking a picture portion as a block selected by the left mouse button the contents below the block will be filled with the right button color (block transfer). If selected by the right mouse button the contents below the block will remain unchanged (block copy). The right button color before marking the block is used as a background color; the dots of this color, being transparent, are not incorporated in the block. By additional change of the right button color (before unselecting the block marking) even the color in the original block position will be changed without changing the color of the block's transparent dots. Similarly, when returning the block from the clipboard the color of the right mouse button at the moment of the block returning is decisive. By following marking with the left mouse button or by pressing the right button the block marking will be cancelled and the block remains placed.\par
\par
When putting a whole picture to the clipboard it is not necessary to mark it. The whole picture will be copied automatically.\par
\par
When selecting the function of the text writing a dialog window for the font selection will be displayed first. Both the size and the style of the font may be selected. The font color is determined by the color for the left mouse button. It may be changed even additionally before placing the text. The text is entered in a block. A block can be moved as a normal selection block. The text entering will be completed by pressing the right mouse button or by pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 . By pressing \b \i Esc \i0 \b0 the text specification will be discontinued, the text will be cancelled. During entering the text individual characters may be deleted by pressing \b \i Back Space\i0 \b0 . To enter several similar texts the merit of the block stamp function can be utilized. The text can be changed and stamped without having to call up the font type selection again.\par
\par
During the editing of a picture or an item the current cursor position is displayed in the main window {\uldb information field}{\v Program Editor}. In the case of an item the position is displayed in graphic pixels. In the case of a picture the position is displayed either in graphic pixels or in steps depending on the setting of the {\uldb picture dimensions}{\v Picture Dimensions} unit selector.\par
\page


#{\footnote Picture Dimensions}
${\footnote Picture Dimensions}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Picture Dimensions;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Picture Dimensions\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Editing an Item and a Picture}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture}\par
\qc \par
\{bmc PicD2_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
The picture dimensions can be changed during picture editing. The picture width and height can be specified either in steps (a unity distance corresponding to 32 graphic pixels) or in graphic pixels. When specifying the dimensions in steps they can be specified by a decimal number. The maximum dimension value is 1024 steps, corresponding to 32768 graphic pixels.\par
\par
The setting of the dimension unit selector affects at the same time the units for displaying the cursor coordinates in the picture editor. To change the selector function to this purpose it is sufficient to press the \b \i Cancel \i0 \b0 button after the selection has been made without the necessity of confirming by \b \i OK\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
When changing the picture dimensions, the picture left lower corner will be maintained. When extending the picture dimensions, the picture will be completed from the right side as well from above by a transparent color. When diminishing the picture dimensions the picture will be clipped from the right side and from above.\par
\page


#{\footnote Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part}
${\footnote Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Editing an Item and a Picture}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture}\par
\par
The modifications of a picture or of an item are applied to their selected portions. If nothing is selected, the modification will be carried out with the whole picture or item. When modifying the whole picture some picture dimension changes may occur. When modifying items the item dimensions remain unchanged.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc PicK2_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
Doing the color changes the colors selected for the left and right mouse button are brought to bear. The first operation will interchange the selected colors. The second one will replace the left button color by the right button color.\par
\par
When diminishing to a half the {\uldb dithering}{\v Dithering} will be used, when it is switched on, and the edge smoothing function (semi-shades are used on the transition). This operation may last longer when modifying larger pictures. When the operation of extending to double dimensions is utilized, the edge smoothing function is not used. When changing a sprite picture size this change will be applied on any other sprite pictures, too.\par
\par
The selection of the optional resize will call up a window for the picture size modification:\par
\qc \par
\{bmc PicK3_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
The switch of the edge smoothing is used to change the picture size by a precise interpolation method (i.e. by routing a curve through points). The interpolation method is rather slow, but it ensures a natural picture appearance even after changing its size. It is recommended to switch off the edge smoothing to speed up the conversion or when carrying out a drawing conversion to suppress the origination of semi-shades on the drawing edges. The dithering switch will ensure a proper color reproduction of the semi-shades created by the conversion. The dithering will not be instrumental during a conversion without the edge smoothing being switched on. It is advisable to switch off the dithering during drawing conversions to prevent creation of mixed colors, when the pictures are to be edited further, e.g. by area filling with paint. Another reason for switching off the dithering when making drawings can be the rise of grid lines in the colored areas caused by the dithering method.\par
\page


#{\footnote Editing a Sheet}
${\footnote Editing a Sheet}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Sheet;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Sheet\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\pard \tx2200 \par
\cf12 \b Toolbar \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc PicDim.bmp\} \b \i   Dimensions \i0 \b0 \tab Sets general dimensions of the sheet.\par
\{bmc MapEdit.bmp\} \b \i   Editing \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the editing mode of the sheet items (otherwise moving).\par
\{bmc MapFill.bmp\} \b \i   Filling \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the mode of filling the sheet with the item.\par
\{bmc Rastr.bmp\} \b \i   Raster \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the orientation raster display.\par
\pard \tx3000 \par
\cf12 \b Edit Modes \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc MapPic.bmp\} \b \i   Items \i0 \b0 \tab Edits items on the sheet.\par
\{bmc Map1.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 1 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 1.\par
\{bmc Map2.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 2 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 2.\par
\{bmc Map3.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 3 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 3.\par
\{bmc Map4.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 4 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 4.\par
\{bmc Map5.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 5 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 5.\par
\{bmc MapN1.bmp\} \b \i   Numeric Value 1 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 1 (range 0 to 1023).\par
\{bmc MapN2.bmp\} \b \i   Numeric Value 2 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 2 (range 0 to 1023).\par
\{bmc MapN3.bmp\} \b \i   Numeric Value 3 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 3 (range 0 to 127).\par
\par
With the square editing mode switched off it is possible to modify the {\uldb sheet}{\v 20048} area. Each square may include an item, 5 logic flags and 3 numeric values. By means of the mouse the squares (including their contents) can be dragged over the sheet. The squares are moved within the sheet by dragging with depressed left mouse button, the square on the new position being transferred to the original position of the square dragged over  -  the squares will be interchanged. By dragging with the right mouse button the square will be copied to the new position, the contents of the original position will remain unchanged. By moving a square by the left mouse button outside the sheet the square will be deleted, and the empty square item is will be set to the original square position. Onto the sheet items from the field of global variables and functions may be dragged over. By clicking on the square (without dragging) in this field the cursor is moved to the item that is included in the square.\par
\par
With the square editing mode switched on, by clicking with the mouse button on the square the square contents is edited according to the editing mode preset. {\uldb Editing items}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture} is commenced by clicking on the square. In editing a switch, the switch state is changed by clicking on the square. In editing numeric values the numeric value editing is induced. Any integer ranging from 0 till 1023 (for Numeric Value 1 and 2), or from 0 till 127 (for Numeric Value 3) can be specified. By means of the arrow keys the editing square can be moved to edit numbers within the whole sheet. The editing procedure can be terminated by pressing \b \i Enter \i0 \b0 or \b \i Esc\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
The function of the sheet filling makes it possible to fill out a sheet portion with one square. In this mode the mouse cursor is set on the square, with which a sheet portion is supposed to be filled out. The left or right mouse button is pressed, and by dragging the square the section to be filled out is marked. After releasing the mouse button the marked section will be filled by the desired square.\par
\page


#{\footnote Editing a Sound}
${\footnote Editing a Sound}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Sound;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Sound\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
When editing a {\uldb sound}{\v 20045} a time indication representing the sound duration in minutes and seconds is displayed within the editing field. During playing or recording this indication represents the time already elapsed.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditS_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
\tx2200 \par
\cf12 \b Toolbar \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc Play.bmp\} \b \i   Play \i0 \b0 \tab Starts playing of the sound.\par
\{bmc Pause.bmp\} \b \i   Pause \i0 \b0 \tab Pauses playing of the sound.\par
\{bmc Stop.bmp\} \b \i   Stop \i0 \b0 \tab Stops playing of the sound.\par
\{bmc Loop.bmp\} \b \i   Loop \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the repetition of playing.\par
\{bmc Record.bmp\} \b \i   Record \i0 \b0 \tab Starts recording of the sound.\par
\par
To record the sound, the uncompressed PCM, 22 kHz, 16 bits, MONO is used as the sound format. The duration of the sound being recorded is limited by 60 seconds. During the recording the sound source (a microphone or a line input) and a proper recording level must be adjusted by means of the sound mixing device (which is delivered as a Windows option or added to the sound card). Any other program (e.g. \i Sound recording\i0 , a part of Windows) may be used for the sound recording. The sound recorded is then transmitted via the sound library or, still better, via the clipboard.\par
\par
When playing the sound all sound formats are supported that can be played back in the Windows environment. To reproduce MP3 files, a driver for MP3 reproducing (see e.g. http://www.iis.fhg.de/audio) must be installed in some Windows versions. The driver can be installed directly from the distribution CD-ROM of the Peter program from the \b MP3CODEC \b0 folder.\par
\par
\i \b Note: \b0 \i0 \par
By starting the sound editing in the field of global or local variables the sound reproduction is initiated by pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 . This enables an easy examining of a larger quantity of sounds by shifting the selection cursor from the keyboard and pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
\page


#{\footnote Editing a Music}
${\footnote Editing a Music}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Music;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Music\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
When editing {\uldb music}{\v 20046}, a time indication representing the music duration in minutes and seconds is displayed within the editing field. During playing this indication represents the time already elapsed.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditS_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
\tx2200 \par
\cf12 \b Toolbar \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc Play.bmp\} \b \i   Play \i0 \b0 \tab Starts playing of the music.\par
\{bmc Pause.bmp\} \b \i   Pause \i0 \b0 \tab Pauses playing of the music.\par
\{bmc Stop.bmp\} \b \i   Stop \i0 \b0 \tab Stops playing of the music.\par
\{bmc Loop.bmp\} \b \i   Loop \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the repetition of playing.\par
\{bmc Prev.bmp\} \b \i   Rewind \i0 \b0 \tab Moves playing by 10 seconds back.\par
\{bmc Next.bmp\} \b \i   Forward \i0 \b0 \tab Moves playing by 10 seconds forward.\par
\par
\i \b Note: \b0 \i0 \par
By starting the music editing in the field of global or local variables the music reproduction is initiated by pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 . This enables an easy examining of a larger quantity of music by shifting the selection cursor from the keyboard and pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
\page


#{\footnote Editing a Sprite}
${\footnote Editing a Sprite}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editing a Sprite;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Editing a Sprite\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\par
\qc \par
\{bmc EditP_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \tx2200 \par
\cf12 \b Toolbar \b0 \cf0 \par
\{bmc SprSet.bmp\} \b \i   Properties \i0 \b0 \tab Sets {\uldb properties}{\v Sprite Properties} of the sprite (number of phases, directions, ...).\par
\{bmc SprTest.bmp\} \b \i   Test \i0 \b0 \tab Starts test mode of the sprite.\par
\par
A {\uldb sprite}{\v 20049} represents a movable object. When displaying it in the editor, the individual sprite pictures are divided in rows according to the direction of rotation. The positions in a row  are divided into two groups. In the first group there are animation phases during the sprite standstill, in the second group there are animation phases during the sprite motion.\par
\par
Individual pictures within the sprite editing field can be dragged over with the mouse. Dragging a picture with the left mouse button causes a picture transfer to some other location (the picture will be interchanged against the original picture in the new position) or a sprite removal by dragging it outside the sprite sheet. By dragging with the right mouse button the picture will be copied to the new position.\par
\par
By double clicking the sprite picture with the left mouse button the {\uldb sprite picture editing}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture} is called up.\par
\par
During editing a sprite the cursor current position is displayed in the main window {\uldb information field}{\v Program Editor}. The coordinates are specified to indicate the picture position in horizontal and vertical directions. The position indication in horizontal direction corresponds to the {\uldb absolute phase}{\v 20636} indication.\par
\par
In the sprite test mode a window containing a sprite is displayed. By clicking with the mouse button into the window the sprite can be moved on the sheet thus enabling to inspect its appearance and behavior.\par
\par
\b \i Note: \i0 \b0 Sprites can be {\uldb generated}{\v Generating Sprites}, too.\par
\page


#{\footnote Sprite Properties}
${\footnote Sprite Properties}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Sprite Properties;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Sprite Properties\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Editing a Sprite}{\v Editing a Sprite}\par
\qc \par
\{bmc SprS2en.bmp\}\par
\pard \tx3000 \par
The \b \i Delay Between Phases \i0 \b0 specifies the velocity, with which the individual pictures will vary during the sprite animation. The delay is indicated in milliseconds in form of an integer (greater than 0). In PC computers the resolution value is 55 milliseconds; the entered value will be modified to express a multiple of this value.\par
\par
The \b \i Phases per Step \i0 \b0 entry represents the sprite motion speed. It specifies the change number of the animation pictures for the sprite to cover a unity distance (i.e. a distance of 1 square or 32 graphic pixels). By entering the value of 0 an instantaneous sprite transfer to a new position is brought about. Moving in place can be induced (in addition to using the standstill phases) by entering a large value for the phases number per step (This value should not exceed about 2000000000, i.e. 2 thousand of millions).\par
\par
The \b \i Level to Be Displayed \i0 \b0 specifies the height level, in which a sprite will be painted. The height level defines the mutual relations of the sprites, determining, which sprite will be painted at the top, and which at the bottom. Positive levels are intended for the sprite motion above the {\uldb item layer}{\v Layers}, negative ones are intended for the sprite motion below the item layer. The zero value indicates a level situated close above the items' surface.\par
\par
The \b \i Standstill Phases \i0 \b0 indicate the pictures number necessary for the sprite animation in the quiescent condition. Their minimum value is 1, their maximum value is 1024.\par
\par
The \b \i Moving Phases \i0 \b0 determine the pictures number necessary for the sprite animation in the moving condition. Their minimum value is 0, their maximum value is 1024.\par
\par
The \b \i Directions \i0 \b0 specify the number of possible directions after the sprite's being rotated. Their minimum value is 1, their maximum value is 1024. These directions serve for displaying the sprite only; a sprite is allowed to move in all directions independently on direction definitions. For the sprite motion the nearest direction is used that corresponds to the division of the perigon (360 degrees) into the specified number of directions. The first direction angle is always 0.\par
\par
The \b \i Picture Width and Height \i0 \b0 determine the size of one sprite picture. The size is expressed in units of steps (1 step corresponding to 32 pixels). The size may be also modified when {\uldb editing the sprite picture}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture}. In this case the size may be specified in graphic pixels, too.\par
\page


#{\footnote Structural Elements of a Program}
#{\footnote Basic Structural Elements}
${\footnote Basic Structural Elements of a Program}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Basic Structural Elements of a Program;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Basic Structural Elements of a Program\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
The editor field \b \i Basic Elements \i0 \b0 contains the program's basic structural elements. A supplementary field function is the trash function. Unnecessary elements can be deleted by throwing them into this field.\par
\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20062.bmp\}\tab Peter}{\v 20062} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20067.bmp\}\tab Lucy}{\v 20067} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20057.bmp\}\tab program control}{\v 20057} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20084.bmp\}\tab calculations}{\v 20084} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20121.bmp\}\tab controls}{\v 20121} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20276.bmp\}\tab texts}{\v 20276} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20302.bmp\}\tab graphic}{\v 20302} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20548.bmp\}\tab sheet}{\v 20548} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20075.bmp\}\tab sound and music}{\v 20075} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20483.bmp\}\tab date and time}{\v 20483} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20569.bmp\}\tab console}{\v 20569} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20437.bmp\}\tab files}{\v 20437} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20648.bmp\}\tab communication}{\v 20648} \par
\page

}
