{\rtf1 \ansi \deff0

@{\footnote ------- definice fontù --------- }

{\fonttbl 
{\f0 \fswiss MS San Serif;}
}

@{\footnote ------- definice barev --------- }

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}

@{\footnote Použití barev:
	0 - èerná
	1 - tmavì èervená
	2 - tmavì zelená
	3 - hnìdá
	4 - tmavì modrá
	5 - tmavì fialová
	6 - tmavì modrozelená
	7 - šedá
	8 - tmavì šedá
	9 - èervená
	10 - zelená
	11 - žlutá
	12 - modrá
	13 - fialová
	14 - modrozelená
	15 - bílá
}

@{\footnote ------- Help Topics --------- }

#{\footnote Help Topics}
${\footnote Help Topics}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Topics;}
\par \pard \box \brdrsh \qc \ri120
\{bmc Petr.bmp\}\line
\fs32 \cf9 \b Peter\line
\fs20 \b0 \cf0 version \b 2.50 \b0 for Windows 95/98/NT/ME/2000/XP\line
\cf0 (c) 1999-2012 Miroslav Nemecek\line Gemtree Software, s.r.o.\line
\b petr.hostuju.cz\line
\b0 \b panda38.sweb.cz\line
\b0 \b www.gemtree.com\b0\par
\pard \par
\plain \cf9 \fs24 \b Help Topics\par
\plain \fs20\par
\cf12 \b Basic Description \b0 \cf0 \par
{\uldb What is Peter}{\v What is Peter}\par
{\uldb Layers}{\v Layers}\par
{\uldb Coordinate System}{\v Coordinate System}\par
{\uldb Configuration}{\v Configuration}\par
\par
\cf12 \b Program List \b0 \cf0 \par
{\uldb Program List}{\v Program List}\par
{\uldb Menu of Program List}{\v Menu of Program List}\par
{\uldb Toolbar of Program List}{\v Toolbar of Program List}\par
\par
\cf12 \b Program Edit \b0 \cf0 \par
{\uldb Program Editor}{\v Program Editor}\par
{\uldb Menu of Program Editor}{\v Menu of Program Editor}\par
{\uldb Toolbar of Program Editor}{\v Toolbar of Program Editor}\par
{\uldb Tree Structure}{\v Tree Structure}\par
\par
\cf12 \b Panels of Edit Window \b0 \cf0 \par
{\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
{\uldb Basic Structural Elements}{\v Basic Structural Elements}\par
{\uldb Global Variables and Functions}{\v Global Variables and Functions}\par
{\uldb Local Variables and Functions}{\v Local Variables and Functions}\par
{\uldb Library of Variables and Functions}{\v Library of Variables and Functions}\par
\par
\cf12 \b Structural Elements and Commands \b0 \cf0 \par
{\uldb Peter}{\v 20062}\par
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
{\uldb Program Control}{\v 20057}\par
{\uldb Calculations}{\v 20084}\par
{\uldb Controls}{\v 20121}\par
{\uldb Texts}{\v 20276}\par
{\uldb Graphic}{\v 20302}\par
{\uldb Sheet}{\v 20548}\par
{\uldb Sound and Music}{\v 20075}\par
{\uldb Date and Time}{\v 20483}\par
{\uldb Console}{\v 20569}\par
{\uldb Files}{\v 20437}\par
{\uldb Communication}{\v 20648}\par
\pard \qc
\page


#{\footnote What is Peter}
${\footnote What is Peter}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote What is Peter;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
What is Peter\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
Peter is a visual programming tool designed for easy and quick creation of applications for Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  Its main characteristic is the graphical representation of the program structure. The program is implemented by putting program elements together. The linkage between the elements is checked already during the program creation, thus avoiding the necessity of the command syntax knowledge and the chance of syntax error occurrence. This makes it possible to enhance the program lucidity and to speed up and to facilitate its creation.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc Struk_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
Another important feature of Peter programming tool is using high-level operations. The individual structure elements of the program are conceived to reach maximum program performance and usefulness by exerting minimum effort. Low till medium complexity applications for the Windows environment can be created rather easily. This concerns above all the multimedia oriented applications, games, dialog windows and console applications.\par
\par
The Peter programming tool is intended for the widest constituency of computer users as the basic means of creating own single-purpose applications, and even for creating professional level applications. For exploiting  it no programming knowledge or any other knowledge from the computer engineering area is required. It can be used even by children of the pre-school age as the principal means for getting acquainted with the computer. Thanks to the richness of its facilities it is a suitable tool for all age categories of computer users. Thanks to the simplicity and operation speed it is a suitable addition for experienced programmers as a supplementary programming instrument.\par
\par
The program created by the Peter programming tool is a direct EXE type program for Windows. No further files are necessary for this program. The advantage is that the created program does not need to be compiled or modified in any way. It can be readily used or passed on to other users as a full-value application of the Windows system.\par
\page

#{\footnote Layers}
${\footnote Layers}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Layers;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Layers\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
The window area is divided into several overlapping layers. The principal layer is the layer of {\uldb items}{\v 20044}, which is denoted by the height level 0. In this layer the items of the {\uldb main sheet}{\v Global Variables and Functions} are displayed. The main sheet is a picture grid of 32 x 32 graphical dots (pixels). Above the item layer {\uldb sprites}{\v 20049} having a positive height level can be moved. Below the item layer sprites having a negative height level can be moved. The lowest layer is the graphic layer. Into this layer the {\uldb dot graphics}{\v 20302} including pictures are displayed. In order that the graphic layer and sprites having a negative height level may be visible, it is necessary to make the items transparent by means of a transparent color (the first color at the upper left of the {\uldb graphic editor}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture}).\par
\qc \par
\{bmc Vrstv_en.bmp\}\par
\page

#{\footnote Coordinate System}
${\footnote Coordinate System}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Coordinate System;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Coordinate System\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
The used coordinate system is based on the classical model having its coordinate origin at the lower left. The zero of the horizontal X coordinate is situated on the left edge of the sheet. Its value increases in the right direction. The zero of the vertical Y coordinate is situated on the lower edge of the sheet. Its value increases in the up direction. The unit distance corresponds to the width of the {\uldb item}{\v 20044} (icon), i.e. 32 graphic pixels. This makes it possible to use the coordinates easily (The indexing of the squares 0, 1, 2 ... corresponds to their coordinates) maintaining the possibility of working with fine graphics (using decimal numbers). This coordinate system is used by all functions of the Peter system.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc Sourad.bmp\}\par
\page

#{\footnote Configuration}
${\footnote Configuration}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Configuration;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Configuration\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
The Peter system enables the operation of several users both with one computer and with computers connected in a network. This is accomplished by dividing the folders into sample folders and working ones. The sample folders include sample programs and libraries. They are common for all users. A working folder is a folder of the user, where own programs, libraries and configurations are stored by the user. The sample folders are installed in the installation folder of the Peter application, the working folders can be created anywhere. When using them, sample library files are displayed in groups designated as \b [examples]\b0 , the sample programs are displayed together with the own programs of the user.\par
\par
On adding a new user it is possible to create a copy of the starting icon in the Windows desktop; the working folder will be set to the working folder of the user. A new starting icon can be created by the following procedure: By clicking with the right mouse button on the Windows desktop the option \b \i New Object \i0 \b0 / \b \i Shell Link \i0 \b0 is called; by the \b \i Browse \i0 \b0 option the main application program named \b Peter.exe \b0 is found by browsing. After creating the starting icon the \b \i Properties \i0 \b0 option is called by clicking with the right mouse button on the icon. In the field "\b \i Start In:\i0 \b0 " the working folder of the user will be specified (or, by using the "\b \i Find Target\i0 \b0 " option, the folder is found by browsing or it is created).\par
\par
Both in the installation (sample) and working folder the following folder organization is used:\par
\par
\tab \b \i Backup\i0 \b0 \tab - backup of the files to be deleted or saved (a folder may be deleted as a whole)\par
\tab \b \i Bool\i0 \b0 \tab - flags\par
\tab \b \i Icon\i0 \b0 \tab - items\par
\tab \b \i Map\i0 \b0 \tab - sheets\par
\tab \b \i Music\i0 \b0 \tab - music\par
\tab \b \i Number\i0 \b0 \tab - numbers\par
\tab \b \i Picture\i0 \b0 \tab - pictures\par
\tab \b \i Program\i0 \b0 \tab - programs\par
\tab \b \i Sound\i0 \b0 \tab - sounds\par
\tab \b \i Sprite\i0 \b0 \tab - sprites\par
\tab \b \i Text\i0 \b0 \tab - text\par
\par
In addition to the installation folder the \b \i Source \i0 \b0 folder can be added including source texts for generating sprites by means of the PovRay program.\par
\par
By starting the Peter application directly in the installation folder it is possible to modify the sample programs and the sample library, too (That means that the working folder is identical with the sample folder). This way of starting can be called up by starting the option "Peter with modification of example library", which is available in the Start menu of the Windows system.\par
\page

#{\footnote Program List}
${\footnote Program List}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Program List;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Program List\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
{\uldb Menu of Program List}{\v Menu of Program List}\par
\par
After starting the Peter application or after completing the program edition a program list will be displayed. This program list is intended to manage the programs and to select the program to be edited.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc Vyber_en.bmp\}\par \pard
\tx2200 \par
\i Tips: \i0 \par
\cf12 Starting a program \tab \cf0 The selection cursor is set on the program, \i \b Start \b0 \i0 is chosen in the menu or the \i \b Enter \b0 \i0 (or \i \b F5\b0 \i0 ) key is pressed.\par
\cf12 A new program \tab \cf0 \i \b New \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Ctrl+N \b0 \i0 keys are pressed and the name of the new program is entered.\par
\cf12 Program edition \tab \cf0 The selection cursor is set on the program, \i \b Open \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Ctrl+O \b0 \i0 keys are pressed.\par
\cf12 Rename \tab \cf0 The selection cursor is set on the program or on the folder, \i \b Rename \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Alt+Enter \b0 \i0 keys are pressed.\par
\cf12 Making a copy \tab \cf0 The selection cursor is set on the program, \i \b Copy \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Ctrl+C \b0 \i0 keys are pressed.\par
\cf12 A new folder \tab \cf0 \i \b New Folder \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Ctrl+P \b0 \i0 keys are pressed and the name of the new folder is entered.\par
\cf12 Delete \tab \cf0 The selection cursor is set on the program or on the folder, \i \b Delete \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Delete \b0 \i0 key is pressed.\par
\cf12 Changing a folder \tab \cf0 The selection cursor is set on the folder and the \i \b Enter \b0 \i0 key is pressed.\par
\cf12 End of application \tab \cf0 \i \b Exit \b0 \i0 is selected in the menu or the \i \b Alt+F4 \b0 \i0 keys are pressed.\par
\par
\par
\i Notes: \i0 \par \pard
\tab - A folder denoted as "\b ..\b0 " is intended to be returned into the parent folder\par
\tab - In program and folder names no reserved characters \b * | \\ : " < > ? / \b0 may be used.\par
\tab - A folder that is not empty cannot be deleted\par
\tab - A program saved in a non-executable manner will be opened for edition instead of starting\par
\tab - A program to be deleted is transferred into the \b Backup \b0 folder\par
\par
The program list includes both sample programs and modified as well as an own programs. By opening a sample program and by its saving the program will be stored in user's own working folder. Sample programs cannot be neither renamed nor deleted. By deleting a modified program the original program sample version will be restored.\par
\pard
\page


#{\footnote Menu of Program List}
${\footnote Menu of Program List}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Menu of Program List;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Menu of Program List\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
{\uldb Program List}{\v Program List}, {\uldb Toolbar of Program List}{\v Toolbar of Program List}\par
\par
The menu of the program list can be activated either with the mouse or by pressing the \i \b F10 \b0 \i0 or the \i \b Alt \b0 \i0 key. The character serving a quick calling up of the option from the keyboard after activating the menu is indicated by underscoring it in the menu options. Following the menu option the shortcut key is given, enabling  quick calling the function from the keyboard without having to activate the menu.\par
\pard \par
\tx2200 \par
\cf12 \fs22 File: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\b \i Start \i0 \b0 \tab Starts the program or changes the folder designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut key \b \i F5 \i0 \b0 or \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Open \i0 \b0 \tab Opens the program designated by the selection cursor for editing. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+O\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i New \i0 \b0 \tab Creates a new (empty) program of the specified name. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+N\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i New Folder \i0 \b0 \tab Creates a new folder for programs. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+P\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Copy \i0 \b0 \tab Creates a copy of the program designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+C\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Rename \i0 \b0 \tab Renames the program or the folder designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut keys \b \i Alt+Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Delete \i0 \b0 \tab Deletes the program or the folder designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut key \b \i Delete\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Font Setup \i0 \b0 \tab Displays the submenu for setting up the font in the Peter application.\par
\pard \tx3000
\b \i   Font of Program Select \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font in the window of  {\uldb program select}{\v Program List} (program list).\par
\b \i   Font of Program Editor \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font in the window of {\uldb program editor}{\v Program Editor}.\par
\b \i   Font of Text Editor \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font in the window of {\uldb text editor}{\v Editing a Text}.\par
\b \i   Font of Menu \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font of menu.\par
\b \i   Font of Status Bar \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font of status bar.\par
\pard \tx2200
\b \i Language \i0 \b0 \tab Sets up the {\uldb language}{\v 20397} of the Peter application.\par
\pard \tx3000
\b \i   Automatic \i0 \b0 \tab Selects language automatically according to the system Windows setting ("\i local setting\i0 ")\par
\b \i   Czech \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Czech language.\par
\b \i   German \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the German language.\par
\b \i   English \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the English language.\par
\b \i   Spanish \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Spanish language.\par
\b \i   Russian \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Russian language.\par
\b \i   Slovak \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Slovak language.\par
\b \i   Previous \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application between the two last used languages. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+F9\i0 \b0 .\par
\pard \tx2200
\b \i Short Names \i0 \b0 \tab Uses names shorted to contain 8 characters when creating and renaming programs and library files (the new name is stored as {\uldb alias}{\v 20751}).\par
\b \i Exit \i0 \b0 \tab Quits the Peter application. Shortcut keys \b \i Alt+F4\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Help: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\b \i Help \i0 \b0 \tab Displays help for the selected element. Shortcut key \b \i F1\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Search in Help \i0 \b0 \tab Searches for a topic or a word in the help.\par
\b \i Help Contents \i0 \b0 \tab Displays help contents for the Peter application.\par
\b \i About Peter Application \i0 \b0 \tab Displays information about the Peter application, version number and copyright.\par
\par
\par
\i Notes: \i0 \par \pard
\tab - When selecting a font, 0 height denotes the normal font height, 0 width denotes the normal font width.\par
\tab - When changing the language, the description language of the program elements is changed, too. The program can include texts for several languages. After starting a program in a particular language texts for this language will appear. If the element text is empty, the default text or some other language text will be used.\par
\page


#{\footnote Toolbar of Program List}
${\footnote Toolbar of Program List}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Toolbar of Program List;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Toolbar of Program List\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
{\uldb Menu of Program List}{\v Menu of Program List}\par
\par
\tx2200 \par
\{bmc Start.bmp\} \b \i   Start \i0 \b0 \tab Starts the program or changes the folder designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut key \b \i F5 \i0 \b0 or \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Open.bmp\} \b \i   Open \i0 \b0 \tab Opens the program designated by the selection cursor for editing. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+O\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc New.bmp\} \b \i   New \i0 \b0 \tab Creates a new (empty) program of the specified name. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+N\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc NewDir.bmp\} \b \i   New Folder \i0 \b0 \tab Creates a new folder for programs. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+P\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Copy.bmp\} \b \i   Copy \i0 \b0 \tab Creates a copy of the program designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+C\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Rename.bmp\} \b \i   Rename \i0 \b0 \tab Renames the program or the folder designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut keys \b \i Alt+Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Del.bmp\} \b \i   Delete \i0 \b0 \tab Deletes the program or the folder designated by the selection cursor. Shortcut key \b \i Delete\i0 \b0 .\par
\page

#{\footnote Program Editor}
${\footnote Program Editor}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Editor;Program Editor;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Program Editor\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
After opening the program to be edited the program editor window will be displayed.\par
\qc \par
\{bmc Edit_en.bmp\}\par
\pard \par
Editor commanding:\par
\tab {\uldb Menu of Program Editor}{\v Menu of Program Editor}\par
\tab {\uldb Toolbar of Program Editor}{\v Toolbar of Program Editor}\par
\tab {\uldb Tree Structure}{\v Tree Structure}\par
\par
The editor window is divided into five areas:\par
\tab {\uldb Edit Panel}{\v Edit Panel}\par
\tab {\uldb Basic Structural Elements}{\v Basic Structural Elements}\par
\tab {\uldb Global Variables and Functions}{\v Global Variables and Functions}\par
\tab {\uldb Local Variables and Functions}{\v Local Variables and Functions}\par
\tab {\uldb Library of Variables and Functions}{\v Library of Variables and Functions}\par
\par
By the \b \i Tab \i0 \b0 or \b \i Shift+Tab \i0 \b0 keys it can be switched over between the individual areas.\par
\page

}
