{\rtf1 \ansi \deff0

@{\footnote ------- definice fontù --------- }

{\fonttbl 
{\f0 \fswiss MS San Serif;}
}

@{\footnote ------- definice barev --------- }

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}

@{\footnote Použití barev:
	0 - èerná
	1 - tmavì èervená
	2 - tmavì zelená
	3 - hnìdá
	4 - tmavì modrá
	5 - tmavì fialová
	6 - tmavì modrozelená
	7 - šedá
	8 - tmavì šedá
	9 - èervená
	10 - zelená
	11 - žlutá
	12 - modrá
	13 - fialová
	14 - modrozelená
	15 - bílá
}

#{\footnote Menu of Program Editor}
${\footnote Menu of Program Editor}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Menu of Program Editor;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Menu of Program Editor\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
{\uldb Toolbar of Program Editor}{\v Toolbar of Program Editor}\par
\par
The menu of the program editor can be activated either with the mouse or by pressing the \i \b F10 \b0 \i0 or the \i \b Alt \b0 \i0 key. The character serving a quick calling up of the option from the keyboard after activating the menu is indicated by underscoring it in the menu options. Following the menu option the shortcut key is given, enabling  quick calling the function from the keyboard without having to activate the menu.\par
\pard \par
\tx2200 \par
\cf12 \fs22 File: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\b \i Start \i0 \b0 \tab Starts (or, if need be, saves) a program. Shortcut key \b \i F5\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Close \i0 \b0 \tab Closes the editing program and opens another one. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+O\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Save \i0 \b0 \tab Saves the changes performed in the program. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+S\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Save as Nonexecutable \i0 \b0 \tab Saves the program as nonexecutable (till the next saving). The program will get about 250 KB smaller. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Alt+S\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Save As \i0 \b0 \tab Saves the program into the file with a different name or to the different disk. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Shift+S\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Distribution \i0 \b0 \tab Saves the program as non-editable, without source information (only with the \b \i Professional \i0 \b0 version)\par

\b \i Font Setup \i0 \b0 \tab Displays the submenu for setting up the font in the Peter application.\par
\pard \tx3000
\b \i   Font of Program Select \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font in the window of  {\uldb program select}{\v Program List} (program list).\par
\b \i   Font of Program Editor \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font in the window of {\uldb program editor}{\v Program Editor}.\par
\b \i   Font of Text Editor \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font in the window of {\uldb text editor}{\v Editing a Text}.\par
\b \i   Font of Menu \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font of menu.\par
\b \i   Font of Status Bar \i0 \b0 \tab Sets font of status bar.\par
\pard \tx2200
\b \i Language \i0 \b0 \tab Sets up the {\uldb language}{\v 20397} of the Peter application.\par
\pard \tx3000
\b \i   Automatic \i0 \b0 \tab Selects language automatically according to the system Windows setting ("\i local setting\i0 ")\par
\b \i   Czech \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Czech language.\par
\b \i   German \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the German language.\par
\b \i   English \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the English language.\par
\b \i   Spanish \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Spanish language.\par
\b \i   Russian \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Russian language.\par
\b \i   Slovak \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application to the Slovak language.\par
\b \i   Previous \i0 \b0 \tab Switches the Peter application between the two last used languages. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+F9\i0 \b0 .\par
\pard \tx2200
\b \i Short Names \i0 \b0 \tab Uses names shorted to contain 8 characters when creating and renaming programs and library files (the new name is stored as {\uldb alias}{\v 20751}).\par
\b \i Exit \i0 \b0 \tab Quits the Peter application. Shortcut keys \b \i Alt+F4\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Edit: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\b \i Undo \i0 \b0 \tab Returns into the condition before making the change. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Z\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Redo \i0 \b0 \tab Takes back returning into the condition before making the change. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Y\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Cut \i0 \b0 \tab Cuts the selection and moves it to the clipboard. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+X\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Copy \i0 \b0 \tab Copies the selection to the clipboard. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+C\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Paste \i0 \b0 \tab Inserts the clipboard contents at the actual position. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+V\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Delete \i0 \b0 \tab Deletes the selection. Shortcut key \b \i Delete\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Select All \i0 \b0 \tab Marks all as selected. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+A\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Dithering \i0 \b0 \tab Uses {\uldb dithering}{\v Dithering} with the importing and decreasing of pictures.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 View: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\b \i Zoom In \i0 \b0 \tab Increases the scale of display. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+[+]\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Zoom Out \i0 \b0 \tab Decreases the scale of display. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+[-]\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Previous Edit \i0 \b0 \tab Returns to the previously edited element. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Up\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Next Edit \i0 \b0 \tab Returns to the next edited element. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Down\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Find Text \i0 \b0 \tab Finds the entered text. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+F\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Previous Text \i0 \b0 \tab Finds a previous occurrence of the text. Shortcut keys \b \i Shift+F3\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Next Text \i0 \b0 \tab Finds a next occurrence of the text. Shortcut key \b \i F3\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Program: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a tree-structured program format)\par
\b \i Lock \i0 \b0 \tab Locks the element against modification.\par
\b \i Turn Off \i0 \b0 \tab Turnes off the function of element.\par
\b \i Description \i0 \b0 \tab Edits description of the element (for current language). Shortcut keys \b \i Alt+Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Default Description \i0 \b0 \tab Uses default description of the element.\par
\b \i Icon \i0 \b0 \tab Edits icon of the element.\par
\b \i Default Icon \i0 \b0 \tab Uses default icon of the element.\par
\b \i Declaration \i0 \b0 \tab Finds declaration of the element.\par
\b \i Previous Use \i0 \b0 \tab Finds previous use of the element.\par
\b \i Next Use \i0 \b0 \tab Finds next use of the element.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Sheet: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a sheet)\par
\b \i Dimensions \i0 \b0 \tab Sets general dimensions of the sheet.\par
\b \i Editing \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the editing mode of the sheet items (otherwise moving).\par
\b \i Filling \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the mode of filling the sheet with the item.\par
\b \i Raster \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the orientation raster display.\par
\b \i Items \i0 \b0 \tab Edits items on the sheet.\par
\b \i Flag 1 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 1.\par
\b \i Flag 2 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 2.\par
\b \i Flag 3 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 3.\par
\b \i Flag 4 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 4.\par
\b \i Flag 5 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 5.\par
\b \i Numeric Value 1 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 1 (range 0 to 1023).\par
\b \i Numeric Value 2 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 2 (range 0 to 1023).\par
\b \i Numeric Value 3 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 3 (range 0 to 127).\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Picture: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a picture or an item)\par
\b \i Dimensions \i0 \b0 \tab Sets picture general {\uldb dimensions}{\v Picture Dimensions} (only when editing a picture).\par
\b \i Raster \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the orientation raster display.\par
\b \i Edit \i0 \b0 \tab {\uldb Edits the picture}{\v Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part} or its part (resize, rotation, color exchange).\par
\b \i Block Stamp \i0 \b0 \tab Stamps the block to the picture.\par
\b \i Horizontal \i0 \b0 \tab Flips the picture or its part horizontally.\par
\b \i Vertical \i0 \b0 \tab Flips the picture or its part vertically.\par
\b \i Left \i0 \b0 \tab Rotate the picture or its part to the left (by 90 degrees counter-clockwise).\par
\b \i Right \i0 \b0 \tab Rotate the picture or its part to the right (by 90 degrees clockwise).\par
\b \i Double \i0 \b0 \tab Increases size of the picture or its part twice (refining of edges is turned off).\par
\b \i Half \i0 \b0 \tab Decreases size of the picture or its part by a half (refining of edges and dithering are turned off).\par
\b \i Resize \i0 \b0 \tab Resizes the picture or its part {\uldb optionally}{\v Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part}.\par
\b \i Exchange \i0 \b0 \tab Exchanges the left and right mouse button colors in the picture or in its part.\par
\b \i Substitution \i0 \b0 \tab Substitutes the right mouse button color by the left mouse button color in the picture or in its part.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Tools: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a picture or an item)\par
\b \i Pen \i0 \b0 \tab Draws with the pen.\par
\b \i Line \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a line.\par
\b \i Box \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a box.\par
\b \i Filled Box \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled box.\par
\b \i Circle \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a circle.\par
\b \i Filled Circle \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled circle.\par
\b \i Ellipse \i0 \b0 \tab Draws an ellipse.\par
\b \i Filled Ellipse \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled ellipse.\par
\b \i Sphere \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a sphere.\par
\b \i Selection \i0 \b0 \tab Marks the determined part as selected (left mouse button = move, right mouse button = copy).\par
\b \i Spray \i0 \b0 \tab Draws with the spray (profuseness is determined by selected line thickness).\par
\b \i Pipette \i0 \b0 \tab Sets the color beneath the cursor as selected.\par
\b \i Filler \i0 \b0 \tab Fills the surface by a color.\par
\b \i Text \i0 \b0 \tab Writes the text.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Thickness: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a picture or an item)\par
\b \i Thickness 1 Pixel \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 1 pixel.\par
\b \i Thickness 2 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 2 pixels.\par
\b \i Thickness 5 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 5 pixels.\par
\b \i Thickness 9 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 9 pixels.\par
\b \i Thickness 21 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 21 pixels.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Sprite: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a sprite)\par
\b \i Properties \i0 \b0 \tab Sets {\uldb properties}{\v Sprite Properties} of the sprite (number of phases, directions, ...).\par
\b \i Test \i0 \b0 \tab Starts test mode of the sprite.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Sound: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a sound)\par
\b \i Play \i0 \b0 \tab Starts playing of the sound.\par
\b \i Pause \i0 \b0 \tab Pauses playing of the sound.\par
\b \i Stop \i0 \b0 \tab Stops playing of the sound.\par
\b \i Loop \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the repetition of playing.\par
\b \i Record \i0 \b0 \tab Starts recording of the sound.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Music: \fs20 \cf0 (only when editing a music)\par
\b \i Play \i0 \b0 \tab Starts playing of the music.\par
\b \i Pause \i0 \b0 \tab Pauses playing of the music.\par
\b \i Stop \i0 \b0 \tab Stops playing of the music.\par
\b \i Loop \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the repetition of playing.\par
\b \i Rewind \i0 \b0 \tab Moves playing by 10 seconds back.\par
\b \i Forward \i0 \b0 \tab Moves playing by 10 seconds forward.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 Help: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\b \i Help \i0 \b0 \tab Displays help for the selected element. Shortcut key \b \i F1\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i Search in Help \i0 \b0 \tab Searches for a topic or a word in the help.\par
\b \i Help Contents \i0 \b0 \tab Displays help contents for the Peter application.\par
\b \i About Peter Application \i0 \b0 \tab Displays information about the Peter application, version number and copyright.\par
\par
\par
\i Notes: \i0 \par \pard
\tab - When selecting a font, 0 height denotes the normal font height, 0 width denotes the normal font width.\par
\tab - When changing the language, the description language of the program elements is changed, too. The program can include texts for several languages. After starting a program in a particular language texts for this language will appear. If the element text is empty, the default text or some other language text will be used.\par
\page

#{\footnote Dithering}
${\footnote Dithering}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote dithering;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Dithering\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Menu of Program Editor}{\v Menu of Program Editor}\par
\par
The number of possible picture colors is limited to about 200. This is sufficient for drawing pictures, but this need not be sufficient for photographs or some other pictures utilizing more colors. Therefore a technique called \b dithering \b0 is used when loading multicolored pictures. When using the dithering, alternating multicolored dots instead of a compact colored area are utilized, so that a impression of the required color shade may be reached if viewed in a normal way.\par
\par
The difference is visible in the following pictures. Without using the dithering the original colors are substituted by the nearest color of colors available. This results in origination of colored areas having sharp transitions, as can be seen in the first picture. In the second picture the situation is illustrated when the dithering is used. If viewed closely, alternate multicolored dots are apparent. If viewed in a normal way the individual dots are not distinguishable, thus giving rise to the perception of real color shades.\par
\par
In spite of that there are cases in which the dithering may cause troubles. This is above all when loading pictures that are intended for drawing. If the dithering were used in this case, then the colored areas would be filled with a grid of multicolored dots. Thus the function of filling the area with paint would be inhibited. Therefore it is possible to switch the use of the dithering off in the {\uldb menu}{\v Menu of Program Editor}.\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 \b Without \b0 dithering: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\{bmc Dith1.bmp\}\par
\par
\cf12 \fs22 \b With \b0 dithering: \fs20 \cf0 \par
\{bmc Dith2.bmp\}\par
\par
\page


#{\footnote Toolbar of Program Editor}
${\footnote Toolbar of Program Editor}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Toolbar of Program Editor;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Toolbar of Program Editor\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
{\uldb Menu of Program Editor}{\v Menu of Program Editor}\par
\par
\tx2500 \par
\{bmc Start.bmp\} \b \i   Start \i0 \b0 \tab Starts (or, if need be, saves) a program. Shortcut key \b \i F5\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Close.bmp\} \b \i   Close \i0 \b0 \tab Closes the editing program and opens another one. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+O\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Save.bmp\} \b \i   Save \i0 \b0 \tab Saves the changes performed in the program. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+S\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Undo.bmp\} \b \i   Undo \i0 \b0 \tab Returns into the condition before making the change. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Z\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Redo.bmp\} \b \i   Redo \i0 \b0 \tab Takes back returning into the condition before making the change. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Y\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Cut.bmp\} \b \i   Cut \i0 \b0 \tab Cuts the selection and moves it to the clipboard. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+X\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Copy.bmp\} \b \i   Copy \i0 \b0 \tab Copies the selection to the clipboard. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+C\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Paste.bmp\} \b \i   Paste \i0 \b0 \tab Inserts the clipboard contents at the actual position. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+V\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc Del.bmp\} \b \i   Delete \i0 \b0 \tab Deletes the selection. Shortcut key \b \i Delete\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc All.bmp\} \b \i   Select All \i0 \b0 \tab Marks all as selected. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+A\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc ZoomIn.bmp\} \b \i   Zoom In \i0 \b0 \tab Increases the scale of display. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+[+]\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc ZoomOut.bmp\} \b \i   Zoom Out \i0 \b0 \tab Decreases the scale of display. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+[-]\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc HistPrev.bmp\} \b \i   Previous Edit \i0 \b0 \tab Returns to the previously edited element. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Up\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc HistNext.bmp\} \b \i   Next Edit \i0 \b0 \tab Returns to the next edited element. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+Down\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
Only for area with a tree structure:\par
\{bmc Lock.bmp\} \b \i   Lock \i0 \b0 \tab Locks the element against modification.\par
\{bmc Off.bmp\} \b \i   Turn Off \i0 \b0 \tab Turnes off the function of element.\par
\{bmc Rename.bmp\} \b \i   Description \i0 \b0 \tab Edits description of the element (for current language). Shortcut keys \b \i Alt+Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc DefTxt.bmp\} \b \i   Default Description \i0 \b0 \tab Uses default description of the element.\par\par
\{bmc Icon.bmp\} \b \i   Icon \i0 \b0 \tab Edits icon of the element.\par
\{bmc DefIcon.bmp\} \b \i   Default Icon \i0 \b0 \tab Uses default icon of the element.\par
\{bmc Dekl.bmp\} \b \i   Declaration \i0 \b0 \tab Finds declaration of the element.\par
\{bmc DeklPrev.bmp\} \b \i   Previous Use \i0 \b0 \tab Finds previous use of the element.\par
\{bmc DeklNext.bmp\} \b \i   Next Use \i0 \b0 \tab Finds next use of the element.\par
\{bmc Find.bmp\} \b \i   Find Text \i0 \b0 \tab Finds the entered text. Shortcut keys \b \i Ctrl+F\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc FindPrev.bmp\} \b \i   Previous Text \i0 \b0 \tab Finds a previous occurrence of the text. Shortcut keys \b \i Shift+F3\i0 \b0 .\par
\{bmc FindNext.bmp\} \b \i   Next Text \i0 \b0 \tab Finds a next occurrence of the text. Shortcut key \b \i F3\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
Only when editing a sheet:\par
\{bmc PicDim.bmp\} \b \i   Dimensions \i0 \b0 \tab Sets general dimensions of the sheet.\par
\{bmc MapEdit.bmp\} \b \i   Editing \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the editing mode of the sheet items (otherwise moving).\par
\{bmc MapFill.bmp\} \b \i   Filling \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the mode of filling the sheet with the item.\par
\{bmc Rastr.bmp\} \b \i   Raster \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the orientation raster display.\par
\{bmc MapPic.bmp\} \b \i   Items \i0 \b0 \tab Edits items on the sheet.\par
\{bmc Map1.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 1 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 1.\par
\{bmc Map2.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 2 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 2\par
\{bmc Map3.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 3 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 3\par
\{bmc Map4.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 4 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 4\par
\{bmc Map5.bmp\} \b \i   Flag 5 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the flag 5\par
\{bmc MapN1.bmp\} \b \i   Numeric Value 1 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 1 (range 0 to 1023).\par
\{bmc MapN2.bmp\} \b \i   Numeric Value 2 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 2 (range 0 to 1023).\par
\{bmc MapN3.bmp\} \b \i   Numeric Value 3 \i0 \b0 \tab Edits the numeric value 3 (range 0 to 127).\par
\par
Only when editing a picture or an item:\par
\{bmc PicDim.bmp\} \b \i   Dimensions \i0 \b0 \tab Sets picture general {\uldb dimensions}{\v Picture Dimensions} (only when editing a picture).\par
\{bmc Rastr.bmp\} \b \i   Raster \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the orientation raster display.\par
\{bmc PicKonv.bmp\} \b \i   Edit \i0 \b0 \tab {\uldb Edits the picture}{\v Modifications of the Picture or its Selected Part} or its part (resize, rotation, color exchange).\par
\{bmc Otisk.bmp\} \b \i   Block Stamp \i0 \b0 \tab Stamps the block to the picture.\par
\{bmc EditPen.bmp\} \b \i   Pen \i0 \b0 \tab Draws with the pen.\par
\{bmc EditLine.bmp\} \b \i   Line \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a line.\par
\{bmc EditBox.bmp\} \b \i   Box \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a box.\par
\{bmc EditBox2.bmp\} \b \i   Filled Box \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled box.\par
\{bmc EditCirc.bmp\} \b \i   Circle \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a circle.\par
\{bmc EditKruh.bmp\} \b \i   Filled Circle \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled circle.\par
\{bmc EditElip.bmp\} \b \i   Ellipse \i0 \b0 \tab Draws an ellipse.\par
\{bmc EditOval.bmp\} \b \i   Filled Ellipse \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a filled ellipse.\par
\{bmc EditKoul.bmp\} \b \i   Sphere \i0 \b0 \tab Draws a sphere.\par
\{bmc EditBlok.bmp\} \b \i   Selection \i0 \b0 \tab Marks the determined part as selected (left mouse button = move, right mouse button = copy).\par
\{bmc EditSpry.bmp\} \b \i   Spray \i0 \b0 \tab Draws with the spray (profuseness is determined by selected line thickness)\par
\{bmc EditPipe.bmp\} \b \i   Pipette \i0 \b0 \tab Sets the color beneath the cursor as selected.\par
\{bmc EditFill.bmp\} \b \i   Filler \i0 \b0 \tab Fills the surface by a color.\par
\{bmc EditTxt.bmp\} \b \i   Text \i0 \b0 \tab Writes the text.\par
\{bmc EditLn01.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 1 Pixel \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 1 pixel.\par
\{bmc EditLn02.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 2 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 2 pixels.\par
\{bmc EditLn05.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 5 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 5 pixels.\par
\{bmc EditLn09.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 9 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 9 pixels.\par
\{bmc EditLn21.bmp\} \b \i   Thickness 21 Pixels \i0 \b0 \tab Draws the lines with a thickness of 21 pixels.\par
\par
Only when editing a sprite:\par
\{bmc SprSet.bmp\} \b \i   Properties \i0 \b0 \tab Sets {\uldb properties}{\v Sprite Properties} of the sprite (number of phases, directions, ...).\par
\{bmc SprTest.bmp\} \b \i   Test \i0 \b0 \tab Starts test mode of the sprite.\par
\par
Only when editing a sound:\par
\{bmc Play.bmp\} \b \i   Play \i0 \b0 \tab Starts playing of the sound.\par
\{bmc Pause.bmp\} \b \i   Pause \i0 \b0 \tab Pauses playing of the sound.\par
\{bmc Stop.bmp\} \b \i   Stop \i0 \b0 \tab Stops playing of the sound.\par
\{bmc Loop.bmp\} \b \i   Loop \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the repetition of playing.\par
\{bmc Record.bmp\} \b \i   Record \i0 \b0 \tab Starts recording of the sound.\par
\par
Only when editing a music:\par
\{bmc Play.bmp\} \b \i   Play \i0 \b0 \tab Starts playing of the music.\par
\{bmc Pause.bmp\} \b \i   Pause \i0 \b0 \tab Pauses playing of the music.\par
\{bmc Stop.bmp\} \b \i   Stop \i0 \b0 \tab Stops playing of the music.\par
\{bmc Loop.bmp\} \b \i   Loop \i0 \b0 \tab Turns on/off the repetition of playing.\par
\{bmc Prev.bmp\} \b \i   Rewind \i0 \b0 \tab Moves playing by 10 seconds back.\par
\{bmc Next.bmp\} \b \i   Forward \i0 \b0 \tab Moves playing by 10 seconds forward.\par
\page


#{\footnote Tree Structure}
${\footnote Tree Structure}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Tree Structure;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Tree Structure\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
The principle program representation is done in a tree structure. The individual tree branches represent the program segments tied together by the sequence of running the program or by the functional sequence. The tree branches can be opened or closed, thus enhancing the program lucidity. The editing transaction carried out within the program consists predominantly in dragging branches or elements over the program, the program being compiled on the graphical level as a brick box.\par
\tx4000 \par
\cf12 \b Editing operations\b0 \cf0 \par
\b \i opening a tree branch \i0 \b0 \tab - Click with the left mouse button on \b + \b0 in front of the element.\par
\tab - Select the element and press the [\b +\b0 ] key.\par
\tab - Select the element and press the [\b *\b0 ] key. All sub-branches will be opened, too.\par
\b \i closing a tree branch \i0 \b0 \tab - Click with the left mouse button on \b - \b0 in front of the element.\par
\tab - Select the element and press the [\b -\b0 ] key.\par
\par
\b \i moving an element or a tree branch \i0 \b0 \tab - Catch an element or a branch by pressing the \b left \b0 mouse button, drag it onto the new position, drop the element or branch by releasing the mouse button.\par
\b \i copying an element or a tree branch \i0 \b0 \tab - Catch an element or an branch by pressing the \b right \b0 mouse button, drag it onto the new position, drop the element or branch by releasing the mouse button.\par
\par
\b \i putting an element or a branch in the clipboard \i0 \b0 \tab - Select the element or branch, press the key combination \b \i Ctrl+C \i0 \b0 (copy) or \b \i Ctrl+X \i0 \b0 (cut).\par
\b \i taking an element or a branch out of the clipboard \i0 \b0 \tab - Select the target element and press the key combination \b \i Ctrfl+V\i0 \b0 .\par
\b \i deleting an element or a branch \i0 \b0 \tab - Catch the element or branch by the left mouse button, drag it into the field of the {\uldb basic structural elements}{\v Program Editor}.\par
\tab - Select the element and press the \b \i Delete \i0 \b0 key.\par
\par
\b \i changing the element text \i0 \b0 \tab - Select the element and press the key combination \b \i Alt+Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\tab - Select the element, after a short time interval (1 second) click on the text with the left mouse button.\par
\b \i editing a variable or a function content \i0 \b0 \tab - Double click with the left mouse button on the icon of the variable or a function.\par
\tab - Select the element and press the \b \i Enter \i0 \b0 key.\par
\par
\b \i renewing the change performed \i0 \b0 \tab - Press the \b \i Ctrl+Z \i0 \b0 keys.\par
\b \i undoing the renewed change performed \i0 \b0 \tab - Press the \b \i Ctrl+Y \i0 \b0 keys.\par
\pard \tx1600 \par
\par
\cf12 \b Graphical symbols\b0 \cf0 \par
\par
\{bmc TreeClos.bmp\}\tab - the branch is close\par
\par
\{bmc TreeOpen.bmp\}\tab - the branch is opened\par
\par
\{bmc TreeDef.bmp\}\tab - edited variable or function\par
\par
\{bmc TreeEqu.bmp\}\tab - setting up the value of an element\par
\par
\{bmc TreeSet.bmp\}\tab - the element value is to be set up (otherwise it will not be used)\par
\par
\{bmc TreeNSet.bmp\}\tab - the element value need not be set up, it will use the default value\par
\par
\i \b Notes: \b0 \i0 \par
- By starting the sound or music editing in the field of the global or local variables by pressing the \b \i Enter \i0 \b0 key the sound or music reproduction will be initiated. This allows for easy examining a rather great number of sounds or music by shifting the selection cursor by the keyboard and pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
- By shifting the selection cursor across the elements of sounds and music in the field of the variables library these sounds and music are reproduced ("Preview" function). This allows for an easy and quick selection of sounds and music without having to drag them over into the program. If the text "\b (repeat)\b0 " or "\b (repeated)\b0 " occurs in the sound name, then this sound is reproduced repeatedly (this does not apply for the music). By pressing \b \i Enter \i0 \b0 the sound is played anew.\par
- By shifting the selection cursor across the elements of pictures in the field of the variables library a picture preview is displayed in the middle (editing) field.\par
- On changing the language the language of the program element descriptions is changed simultaneously. The program may include texts for several languages. On starting a program in a particular language text in this language are displayed. If the element text is empty, then the default language or another language text is used.\par
\par
\page


@{\footnote ------- Help Topics --------- }

#{\footnote Edit Panel}
${\footnote Edit Panel}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Edit Panel;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Edit Panel\par
\pard \plain \fs20
{\uldb Help Topics}{\v Help Topics}\par
\par
The edit panel is a field which is situated in the middle of the program editor window. Within the edit panel the contents of the variable or function to be edited is displayed. The editing can be called by double clicking the variable or function icon or by pressing \b \i Enter\i0 \b0 .\par
\par
\cf12 \b Edit Modes\b0 \cf0 \par
\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20047.bmp\}\tab editing a function}{\v Tree Structure}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20043.bmp\}\tab editing a number}{\v Editing a Number}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20063.bmp\}\tab editing a flag}{\v Editing a Flag}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20051.bmp\}\tab editing a text}{\v Editing a Text}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20044.bmp\}\tab editing an item}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20048.bmp\}\tab editing a sheet}{\v Editing a Sheet}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20246.bmp\}\tab editing a picture}{\v Editing an Item and a Picture}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20045.bmp\}\tab editing a sound}{\v Editing a Sound}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20046.bmp\}\tab editing a music}{\v Editing a Music}\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20049.bmp\}\tab editing a sprite}{\v Editing a Sprite}\par
\page

}
