{\rtf1 \ansi \deff0

@{\footnote ------- definice fontù --------- }

{\fonttbl 
{\f0 \fswiss MS San Serif;}
}

@{\footnote ------- definice barev --------- }

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}

@{\footnote Použití barev:
	0 - èerná
	1 - tmavì èervená
	2 - tmavì zelená
	3 - hnìdá
	4 - tmavì modrá
	5 - tmavì fialová
	6 - tmavì modrozelená
	7 - šedá
	8 - tmavì šedá
	9 - èervená
	10 - zelená
	11 - žlutá
	12 - modrá
	13 - fialová
	14 - modrozelená
	15 - bílá
}

@{\footnote ------- Lucy --------- }

#{\footnote 20067}
#{\footnote 20259}
${\footnote Lucy}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Lucy;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Lucy\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Structural Elements of a Program}{\v Structural Elements of a Program}\par
\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20068.bmp\}\tab step}{\v 20068} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20069.bmp\}\tab left}{\v 20069} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20070.bmp\}\tab right}{\v 20070} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20071.bmp\}\tab turn about}{\v 20071} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20074.bmp\}\tab visible}{\v 20074} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20080.bmp\}\tab item in front of Lucy}{\v 20080} \par
\par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20082.bmp\}\tab horizontal position}{\v 20082} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20083.bmp\}\tab vertical position}{\v 20083} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20081.bmp\}\tab direction}{\v 20081} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20386.bmp\}\tab item on Lucy's position}{\v 20386} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20261.bmp\}\tab numeric value 1 (range 0 to 1023)}{\v 20261} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20263.bmp\}\tab numeric value 2 (range 0 to 1023))}{\v 20263} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20265.bmp\}\tab numeric value 3 (range 0 to 127)}{\v 20265} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20267.bmp\}\tab flag 1}{\v 20267} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20269.bmp\}\tab flag 2}{\v 20269} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20271.bmp\}\tab flag 3}{\v 20271} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20273.bmp\}\tab flag 4}{\v 20273} \par
{\uldb \{bmc IDF20275.bmp\}\tab flag 5}{\v 20275} \par
\page

#{\footnote 20068}
${\footnote Lucy - Step}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Lucy - Step;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20068.bmp\} Lucy - Step\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
By entering the \b \i Lucy - step \i0 \b0 command Lucy will carry out a step forwards in the direction of her position after rotation. No step will be executed outside the sheet boundaries. The length of one step corresponds to the distance of two neighboring squares (i.e. 32 graphic pixels). The final position for the step destination is rounded to units of squares. Normally Lucy can be rotated in 4 directions (right, up, left, down). By redefining the {\uldb sprite}{\v 20049} of Lucy the number of possible directions can be augmented to 8, Lucy being able to step diagonally, too. After starting Lucy's step the program continues running without waiting for its completion. By this property it differs from the execution of Peter's step, where the program does not continue until the step is completed. In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given Lucy will first finish the shift before doing the step.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20069}
${\footnote Lucy - Left}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Lucy - Left;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20069.bmp\} Lucy - Left\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
On entering the \b \i Lucy - left \i0 \b0 command Lucy will turn to the left by 90 degrees. The new orientation is rounded up to the next valid orientation value (according to the number of Lucy sprite's orientation values). In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given she will first finish the shift before starting to turn.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20070}
${\footnote Lucy - Right}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Lucy - Right;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20070.bmp\} Lucy - Right\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
On entering the \b \i Lucy - right \i0 \b0 command Lucy will turn to the right by 90 degrees. The new orientation is rounded up to the next valid orientation value (according to the number of Lucy sprite's orientation values). In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given she will first finish the shift before starting to turn.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20071}
${\footnote Lucy - Turn About}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Lucy - Turn About;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20071.bmp\} Lucy - Turn About\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
On entering the \b \i Lucy - turn about \i0 \b0 command Lucy will turn about by 180 degrees. The new orientation is rounded up to the next valid orientation value (according to the number of Lucy sprite's orientation values). In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given she will first finish the shift before starting to turn.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20074}
${\footnote Lucy - Visible}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Lucy - Visible;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20074.bmp\} Lucy - Visible\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i Lucy - visible \i0 \b0 element represents the flag of Lucy's visibility. If Lucy is visible, her motion over the sheet is animated according to the definition of the Lucy {\uldb sprite's}{\v 20049} definition. Lucy's visibility being switched off, Lucy's motions over the sheet are executed immediately.\par
\par
The element of Lucy's visibility can be treated as a normal logic variable. By using it in a logic term it can be tested, if Lucy is visible. Under "visibility" is understood the possibility of doing animations of the Lucy sprite independently on whether Lucy is present in the sheet visible portion. By using the visibility element as a command its value may be set by means of a logic term, thus switching Lucy's visibility on or off. In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given she will first finish the shift before the visibility can be switched on or off.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20080}
${\footnote Item in front of Lucy}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Item in front of Lucy;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20080.bmp\} Item in front of Lucy\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i item in front of Lucy \i0 \b0 element represents an item on a square in front of Lucy. As a square in front of Lucy a square is considered that is located at a distance of one step from Lucy in the direction of her orientation. By redefining the Lucy sprite the number of orientations can be raised to 8, thus making the squares in the diagonal direction accessible, too.\par
\par
The element of the item in front of Lucy can be treated as a normal logic variable of an item. By using it in a term containing items the contents of the square in front of Lucy can be tested. If the square in front of Lucy is situated outside the sheet, the item of the {\uldb sheet border}{\v 20249} is returned. By using it as a command the item on the square in front of Lucy can be adjusted. In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given Lucy will first finish the shift before the item change can be achieved.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20082}
${\footnote Horizontal position of Lucy}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Horizontal position of Lucy;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20082.bmp\} Horizontal position of Lucy\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i horizontal position of Lucy \i0 \b0 element represents Lucy's coordinate in the horizontal direction on the sheet. The element can be treated as a normal numeric variable. By using it in a numeric term Lucy's present coordinate (changing during the shift to a new position) can be found out. By using the element as a command a new horizontal coordinate of Lucy can be set. If Lucy is not visible, she will shift to the new position immediately. If she is visible, she will start shifting in an animated condition according to the Lucy sprite definition. By doing this, she will not wait for completing the former shift; the shift will start immediately. The commands to change the horizontal and the vertical coordinates may be entered immediately one after another, thus accomplishing the shift to the destination position in the diagonal direction. If Lucy needs to be stopped, it may be done so by setting a new position to her current position (i.e. to assign the coordinates to themselves). Unlike in case of the command for executing a step it is now possible to shift Lucy even outside the sheet.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20083}
${\footnote Vertical position of Lucy}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Vertical position of Lucy;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20083.bmp\} Vertical position of Lucy\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i vertical position of Lucy \i0 \b0 element represents Lucy's coordinate in the vertical direction on the sheet. The element can be treated as a normal numeric variable. By using it in a numeric term Lucy's current coordinate (changing during the shift to a new position) can be found out. By using the element as a command a new vertical coordinate of Lucy can be set. If Lucy is not visible, she will shift to the new position immediately. If she is visible, she will start shifting in an animated condition according to the Lucy sprite definition. By doing this, she will not wait for completing the former shift; the shift will start immediately. The commands to change the horizontal and the vertical coordinates may be entered immediately one after another, thus accomplishing the shift to the destination position in the diagonal direction. If Lucy needs to be stopped, it may be done so by setting a new position to her current position (i.e. to assign the coordinates to themselves). Unlike in case of the command for executing a step it is now possible to shift Lucy even outside the sheet.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20081}
${\footnote Direction of Lucy}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Direction of Lucy;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20081.bmp\} Direction of Lucy\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i direction of Lucy \i0 \b0 element represents the direction of Lucy after being rotated, expressed in radian (The perigon, 360 degrees, corresponding approximately to 6.28). The element can be treated as a normal numeric variable. By using it in a numeric term Lucy's current direction can be found out. By using the element as a command the direction of Lucy can be set. In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given Lucy will first finish the shift before being rotated.\par
\par
To facilitate the use of directions predefined {\uldb angle constants}{\v 20112} can be utilized enabling execution of numeric operations, e.g. addition and division.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20386}
${\footnote Item on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Item on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20386.bmp\} Item on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i item on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents an item on a square on which Lucy is standing. The element can be treated as a normal item variable. By using it in a term containing items the contents of the square of Lucy's position can be tested. If the square is situated outside the sheet, the item of the {\uldb sheet border}{\v 20249} will be returned. By using the element as a command the item on Lucy's square can be set. In case a preceding command to step or to shift to a specified coordinate has been given Lucy will first finish the shift before the item is changed.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20261}
${\footnote Numeric value 1 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Numeric value 1 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20261.bmp\} Numeric value 1 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i numeric value 1 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the numeric value 1 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The numeric value 1 is an integer ranging between 0 and 1023. The element can be treated as a normal numeric variable, that means it can be set or used in numeric terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20263}
${\footnote Numeric value 2 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Numeric value 2 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20263.bmp\} Numeric value 2 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i numeric value 2 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the numeric value 2 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The numeric value 2 is an integer ranging between 0 and 1023. The element can be treated as a normal numeric variable, that means it can be set or used in numeric terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20265}
${\footnote Numeric value 3 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Numeric value 3 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20265.bmp\} Numeric value 3 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i numeric value 3 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the numeric value 3 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The numeric value 3 is an integer ranging between 0 and 127. The element can be treated as a normal numeric variable, that means it can be set or used in numeric terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20267}
${\footnote Flag 1 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Flag 1 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20267.bmp\} Flag 1 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i flag 1 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the condition of the logic switch (flag) 1 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The element can be treated as a normal logic variable, i.e. it can be set or used in logic terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20269}
${\footnote Flag 2 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Flag 2 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20269.bmp\} Flag 2 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i flag 2 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the condition of the logic switch (flag) 2 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The element can be treated as a normal logic variable, i.e. it can be set or used in logic terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20271}
${\footnote Flag 3 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Flag 3 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20271.bmp\} Flag 3 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i flag 3 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the condition of the logic switch (flag) 3 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The element can be treated as a normal logic variable, i.e. it can be set or used in logic terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20273}
${\footnote Flag 4 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Flag 4 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20273.bmp\} Flag 4 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i flag 4 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the condition of the logic switch (flag) 4 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The element can be treated as a normal logic variable, i.e. it can be set or used in logic terms.\par
\page

#{\footnote 20275}
${\footnote Flag 5 on Lucy's position}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Flag 5 on Lucy's position;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
\{bmc IDF20275.bmp\} Flag 5 on Lucy's position\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Lucy}{\v 20067}\par
\par
The \b \i flag 5 on Lucy's position \i0 \b0 element represents the condition of the logic switch (flag) 5 of the square, on which Lucy is standing. The element can be treated as a normal logic variable, i.e. it can be set or used in logic terms.\par
\page

}
