{\rtf1 \ansi \deff0

@{\footnote ------- definice fontù --------- }

{\fonttbl 
{\f0 \fswiss MS San Serif;}
}

@{\footnote ------- definice barev --------- }

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}

@{\footnote Použití barev:
	0 - èerná
	1 - tmavì èervená
	2 - tmavì zelená
	3 - hnìdá
	4 - tmavì modrá
	5 - tmavì fialová
	6 - tmavì modrozelená
	7 - šedá
	8 - tmavì šedá
	9 - èervená
	10 - zelená
	11 - žlutá
	12 - modrá
	13 - fialová
	14 - modrozelená
	15 - bílá
}

#{\footnote 20778}
#{\footnote 20779}
#{\footnote 20780}
#{\footnote 20781}
#{\footnote 20782}
#{\footnote 20783}
#{\footnote 20784}
#{\footnote 20785}
#{\footnote 20786}
#{\footnote 20787}
${\footnote Mixer Device}
+{\footnote 1}
K{\footnote Mixer Device;}
\pard \plain \brdrb \cf12 \fs24 \b
Mixer Device\par
\pard \plain \cf0 \fs20
{\uldb Sound and Music}{\v 20075}\par
\par
A mixer device controls mixing of sounds from miscellaneous sound sources. Mixer device is component of a sound card and can vary in different sound cards.\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20779.bmp\} \b \i mixer device \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i mixer device \i0 \b0 element is a text variable. By reading it a multiline list of mixer device names in the system is returned. By setting one of device names into the element the selection of device which will be controlled is performed. Without performing a device selection a first found mixer device will be used.\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20780.bmp\} \b \i destination line \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The mixer device can control several output (destination) lines. The most frequent case is one speaker output line (reproduction) and one A/D sampler output line (recording). The \b \i destination line \i0 \b0 element allows to select controlled output line of the selected mixer device. By setting one of line names into the element the selection of the destination line will be performed. Without performing a destination line selection a first found output line (usually it will be a speaker output) will be used.\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20781.bmp\} \b \i source line \i0 \b0 (none=only destination line)\par
\par
Every output line can be mixed from several input (source) lines. Input lines can be controlled separately (volume level of single input lines) and in most cases an output line (global volume) can be controlled, too. The \b \i source line \i0 \b0 element returns a multiline list of source line names for the selected output line. By setting one signal name into the element the selection of the source line will be performed which will be controlled. By setting an empty text the output signal will be selected as controlled signal (it is default setting after a destination line selection).\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20782.bmp\} \b \i type of line \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i type of line \i0 \b0 element is a numeric variable returning a type code of the selected source line (or destination if an empty name of the source line is entered). By setting a type code into the element the line corresponding to the entered value will be searched (and set as active). Searching is performed for all lines of the mixer device, independently on destination line selected. Here are adduced typical values:\par
\par 
\b \u Output (destination) lines: \u0 \b0 \par
\b 0 \b0 \tab undefined\par
\b 1 \b0 \tab digital\par
\b 2 \b0 \tab line\par
\b 3 \b0 \tab monitor\par
\b 4 \b0 \tab speakers\par
\b 5 \b0 \tab headphones\par
\b 6 \b0 \tab telephone\par
\b 7 \b0 \tab audio (Wave In)\par
\b 8 \b0 \tab voice input\par
\par
\b \u Input (source) lines: \u0 \b0 \par
\b $1000 \b0 \tab undefined\par
\b $1001 \b0 \tab digital (SPDIF-In)\par
\b $1002 \b0 \tab line\par
\b $1003 \b0 \tab microphone\par
\b $1004 \b0 \tab music (MIDI)\par
\b $1005 \b0 \tab CD\par
\b $1006 \b0 \tab telephone (TAD-In)\par
\b $1007 \b0 \tab PC speaker\par
\b $1008 \b0 \tab audio (Wave Out)\par
\b $1009 \b0 \tab AUX\par
\b $100A \b0 \tab analog input\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20783.bmp\} \b \i control item \i0 \b0 \par
\par
Every input or output line can have one or more control items. The \b \i control item \i0 \b0 element returns a multiline list of control item names for selected input or output line. By setting a control item name into the element the control item can be selected which will be manipulated.\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20784.bmp\} \b \i type of control item \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i type of control item \i0 \b0 element is a numeric variable returning a type code of the selected control item. By setting a control item type code the appropriate control item will be found (and set as active). Searching is performed among selected line items only. Item type code is composed from the following values:\par
\par
\b \u Item class (mask $F0000000): \u0 \b0 \par
\b $00000000 \b0 \tab custom class\par
\b $10000000 \b0 \tab meter\par
\b $20000000 \b0 \tab switch\par
\b $30000000 \b0 \tab number\par
\b $40000000 \b0 \tab slider\par
\b $50000000 \b0 \tab fader\par
\b $60000000 \b0 \tab time\par
\b $70000000 \b0 \tab list\par
\par
\b \u Item subclass (mask $0F000000): \u0 \b0 \par
\b $00000000 \b0 \tab switch - boolean\par
\b $01000000 \b0 \tab switch - button\par
\b $00000000 \b0 \tab time - microseconds\par
\b $01000000 \b0 \tab time - milliseconds\par
\b $00000000 \b0 \tab list - single\par
\b $01000000 \b0 \tab list - multiple\par
\par
\b \u Value unit (mask $00FF0000): \u0 \b0 \par
\b $00000000 \b0 \tab custom \par
\b $00010000 \b0 \tab boolean \par
\b $00020000 \b0 \tab signed \par
\b $00030000 \b0 \tab unsigned \par
\b $00040000 \b0 \tab decibels (in 10ths) \par
\b $00050000 \b0 \tab percent (in 10ths) \par
\par
\b \u Typical values of control item type: \u0 \b0 \par
\b $10010000 \b0 \tab boolean meter \par
\b $10020000 \b0 \tab signed meter\par
\b $10020001 \b0 \tab peak meter\par
\b $10030000 \b0 \tab unsigned meter\par
\b $20010001 \b0 \tab "On/Off" switch\par
\b $20010002 \b0 \tab "Mute" switch\par
\b $20010003 \b0 \tab "Mono" switch\par
\b $20010004 \b0 \tab "Loudness" switch\par
\b $20010005 \b0 \tab "Stereo Enhanced" switch\par
\b $21010004 \b0 \tab button\par
\b $30020000 \b0 \tab signed number\par
\b $30030000 \b0 \tab unsigned number\par
\b $30040000 \b0 \tab decibel number\par
\b $30050000 \b0 \tab percent number\par
\b $40020000 \b0 \tab "Balance" slider\par
\b $40020001 \b0 \tab "Pan" slider\par
\b $40020002 \b0 \tab "QSound Pan" slider\par
\b $50030001 \b0 \tab "Volume" fader\par
\b $50030002 \b0 \tab "Bass" fader\par
\b $50030003 \b0 \tab "Treble" fader\par
\b $50030004 \b0 \tab "Equalizer" fader\par
\b $60030000 \b0 \tab time in microseconds\par
\b $61030000 \b0 \tab time in milliseconds\par
\b $70010000 \b0 \tab single select list\par
\b $70010001 \b0 \tab multiplexer (list)\par
\b $71010000 \b0 \tab multiple select list\par
\b $71010001 \b0 \tab mixer (list)\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20787.bmp\} \b \i controlled channel \i0 \b0 (-1=all)\par
\par
Some of control items allow to control more channels of the line (2 channels for sterero). Number of controlled channel for the selected control item can be selected by setting the \b \i controlled channel \i0 \b0 element (value 0, 1, ...). By setting \b -1 \b0 value all channels of the line will be controlled. By reading the element value the number of channels which can be controlled by the element can be found out.\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20786.bmp\} \b \i selection of item value \i0 \b0 \par
\par
The \b \i selection of item value \i0 \b0 element enables to select item's controlled value for list and multiple items (equalizers). By reading it a multiline text list of value names for the active control item is returned. By setting one of the name into the element the item value can be selected which will be controlled. Items with one value need not selection of a controlled value (buttons, faders).\par
\par
\{bmc IDF20785.bmp\} \b \i value of control item \i0 \b0 (0 to 1)\par
\par
The \b \i value of control item \i0 \b0 numeric element enables to find out and to set the control item value. The value is in range of 0 to 1. For signed items a middle value corresponds to the 0.5 number. For switches the switch-on state corresponds to the 1 value and switch-off to the 0 value. For lists individual values of the list are handled as a switch. For a single select list to switch on a new selected item only is sufficient, the other items will be turned off automatically.\par
\par
\i \b Note: \b0 In programs and games the mixer can be used simplified. In most cases it is sufficient to select control item by setting the \b type of line \b0 element to the line code and the \b type of control item \b0 element to the item code and then control the \b value of control item \b0 element (the mixer selection is done automatically). For example:\i0 \par
Volume: \tab line=\b 4\b0 , \tab \tab item=\b $50030001\b0 \par
Bass: \tab \tab line=\b 4\b0 , \tab \tab item=\b $50030002\b0 \par
Treble: \tab \tab line=\b 4\b0 , \tab \tab item=\b $50030003\b0 \par
Music: \tab \tab line=\b $1004\b0 , \tab item=\b $50030001\b0 \par
Sounds: \tab line=\b $1008\b0 , \tab item=\b $50030001\b0 \par
CD: \tab \tab line=\b $1005\b0 , \tab item=\b $50030001\b0 \par
\page


}
